5-year bs-ms program | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home academics graduate academics fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-ms program admission requirements the 5-year program in computer science combines two degrees: a b.s. in computer science with an m.s. (with thesis) in computer science. this program is competitive and admission is based on overall academic performance, letters of recommendation, and statement of purpose. current illinois computer science students enrolled in the college of engineering with a senior standing (must have the spring semester left of their undergraduate study after they are admitted into the program) who maintain a superior academic performance are eligible to apply for this program. students admitted to this program will receive both degrees once all requirements for both degrees have been successfully completed. transfer students entering the cs undergraduate program their junior year are also eligible to apply to this program. note: students who are seniors follow the standard application process for the ms program . applicants must have a 3.5 or higher gpa. applicants who are transferring to cs from another instituion may apply with 15 graded credit hours on the urbana campus and with current enrollment for at least 15 credit hours.  they must have a 3.5 or higher transfer gpa. bs-ms degree requirements note: students who are in liberal arts and sciences (cs/math, cs/stat, or cs+x) are not eligible for this bs/ms 5 year program. this joint program was negotiated between the college of engineering and the graduate college. application deadline please note the new september 15th application deadline staring in 2018 . applications for the b.s./m.s. program will open on august 1st and the deadline to submit is september 15th . this program only has a fall entrance. an informational session is held mid october for all interested undergrads to learn more about the program and the application process. all application materials must be submitted by the deadline of september 15th . applicants who do not have a completed application by the deadline will not be considered for that term's program entry. application process applicants must submit the following applications materials by the deadline to be considered for the program. if there are any questions regarding the applications process, please contact maggie metzger chappell at mmetz2@illinois.edu or kara macgregor at kmacgreg@illinois.edu . applications for the b.s./m.s. program must be submitted through the university's online application system . please select " computer science - bs/ms " as the "degree name". please review and follow application process & requirements to submit your application. required elements of the b.s./m.s. application: a pdf copy of a signed thesis advisor agreement . (if you are admitted to the b.s./m.s. program, the original form must be submitted to the department. therefore, please save the original form.) three letters of reference, including a letter from your thesis advisor resume statement of purpose the application fee must be paid by the application deadline for the application to be considered complete. note: current international undergraduate students do not need to submit toefl/ielts scores for admissions purposes.  however, to be eligible for teaching assistantship appointments, scores would be required. acceptance into the program admission decisions will be released by october 7th. students provisionally admitted to the program: are assigned a graduate academic advisor. must maintain an overall gpa of 3.0 through completion of the b.s. component of the program to remain in the program. may register for graduate courses and earn graduate credit hours, with approval from their graduate academic advisor, if they have 12 hours or less to complete in their final semester of their undergraduate studies. please note that students cannot transfer more that 12 credit hours of coursework over to their m.s. degree, which includes the shared coursework. must earn at least 120 hours of undergraduate credit, 9 hours of graduate credit (this is the " breadth requirement " of the m.s. degree), and satisfy all b.s. requirements to be officially recommended for admission to the graduate college. upon successful completion of the b.s. component (including grades of b- or better in the " breadth requirement " coursework), and an overall gpa of at least 3.0 gpa, students will be officially admitted into the graduate college for the next term (not including summer term). will be issued letter of admission from the graduate college admission office and the department of computer science, at which time they will be considered graduate students and assessed graduate tuition the following semester. international students may be required to submit additional documentation at this time. may apply or be considered for graduate research or teaching assistantships, tuition waivers, as well as fellowships and scholarships available to graduate students. must continue to maintain a graduate gpa of 3.0 or better in order to remain in the combined program. must complete all the remaining m.s. degree requirements within one academic year (spring-summer-fall or fall-spring-summer). please note that if you finish your b.s. requirements in less than four years, you will not be given extra time to complete the m.s. degree requirements. you will just finish this joint program in less than 5-years and be able to start working sooner! students in the program are eligible to apply for the ph.d. program (fall entry only) in computer science near completion of the m.s. component. if admitted, the combined degree will count as stage 1 of the ph.d. program, as if the student is admitted with a masters degree. coursework bs-ms degree program requirement planning form b.s. component: 120 hours plus 3 "breadth requirement" courses for 9-12 graduate hours same required courses as the traditional b.s. degree with the minimum hours required reduced to 120 hours. must complete 3 " breadth requirement " courses: three different courses, each from a different area, from the following eight core areas with a grade of b- or higher. university undergraduate student minimum residence requirement satisfied. overall gpa of 3.0 or higher maintained through the completion of the b.s. component of the program. m.s. component: minimum 16-19 additional coursework hours plus 4 hours of cs 599 thesis program is identical to the traditional m.s. program with the " breadth requirement " satisfied while still classified as an undergraduate. students who take the " breadth requirement " courses for 3 credit hours instead of 4 credit hours will need to complete a minimum of 19 additional coursework hours. students must satisfy the university's graduate student minimum residence requirement. students must complete remaining m.s. degree requirements in one academic year (fall-spring-summer or spring-summer-fall). students must maintain an overall gpa of 3.0 through completion of the m.s. component of the program. university residency requirements undergraduate residency requirements include a student spending either the first three years, earning not less than 90 semester hours, or the last year (two semesters or the equivalent), earning not fewer than 30 hours, in residence at the urbana-champaign campus, uninterrupted by any work in another institution. graduate residency requirements include that half or more of the graduate hours applied toward the degree must be earned in courses counted for residence credit. consult the university of illinois programs of study book for addition details about university residency requirements. additional information students may earn graduate hours for m.s. component " breadth requirement " taken during the third and fourth year, while a classified undergraduate. students are required to perform and be graded at the (more advanced) graduate student level in those courses, or must register in the graduate level section of a course when offered. students who do not complete all 5-year b.s.- m.s. degree program requirements may request by petition to have graduate hours earned, including the breadth requirement coursework, converted to undergraduate hours and applied toward a traditional b.s. in computer science degree. students reverted back to the b.s. degree program must earn the minimum number of hours and satisfy all degree requirements of whichever version of the b.s. curriculum appropriate. graduate credit not used to fulfill the b.s. degree requirements will remain on the transcript and may, at some future point, be considered for transfer to another degree program. students are strongly advised to seek faculty counsel about the 5-yr program to be sure they understand the pros and cons of pursuing a masters degree via the 5-yr program. if their intention is to ultimately pursue a ph.d., then it may be preferable to avoid the rapid pace of the 5-year program and instead invest time in research as an undergraduate. for admission to competitive ph.d. programs, the expectation of publications and extensive research experience is higher for m.s. graduates. therefore, as an alternative to the 5-year program, many top students may prefer to conduct research, possibly leading to a b.s. thesis, as a way to improve their admissions chances into top ph.d. programs. degree conferral & commencement see: fifth year master's degree conferral & commencement policies graduate academic office contact information department of computer science graduate academic office university of illinois 201 north goodwin, 1210 siebel center urbana, il 61801 campus mail code: mc-258 phone: (217) 333-4428 fax: (217) 244-6073 email: academic@cs.illinois.edu office hours monday – friday morning: 8:00 am to 11:45 am afternoon: 1:00 pm to 4:45 pm walk-in advising hours start at 10:00 am list of graduate advising contacts and virtual advising queue contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');