abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging 9/8/2021 9:35:22 am jenny applequist, coordinated science lab there’s no end to the variety of bizarre rumors circulating about covid-19 vaccines: recipients’ bodies become magnetized, perhaps, or connected to 5g signals. many assume that such tales are cooked up by eccentrics, but some of the rumor-mongering has more sinister origins. in august 2021, for example, facebook uncovered a huge, russia-based anti-vaccination campaign, in which hundreds of fake accounts were working in coordination to spread the belief that people who received the astrazeneca vaccine were being tainted by injected chimpanzee tissue. tarek abdelzaher such misinformation campaigns have become a worrisome feature of the modern threat landscape, and the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has just awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. this work is a part of darpa’s influence campaign awareness and sensemaking (incas) program. abdelzaher, a sohaib and sara abbasi professor and a willett faculty scholar who is also affiliated with the coordinated science laboratory , explains that humanity has a lot of hard-won knowledge of how physical weapons work, and how to employ countermeasures against them. “but today,” he says, “ information is weaponized. people create narratives that are divisive. they are intended to polarize, radicalize, whatever... but we don’t understand the impact of that weapon on the population, the way we understand the impact of a bomb or a lightning strike.” the team will work to develop tools that, first, can detect when an attack is happening in the information space, and second, can understand the impact of the attack. what is it trying to accomplish, what is its audience, and what influence technique is it using? how will it affect the population, or specific subsets of the population? how will they respond? abdelzaher points out that modeling of social systems has challenges beyond those involved in modeling physical systems. “let’s say you have an autonomous car or a drone, and you want to predict its trajectory. we have theory behind it; we have laws of nature behind it.” but what “laws” can describe social systems? that’s where the project’s experts on social psychology will step in. they will advise on the rules of psychology that govern human behavior, and develop answers to questions about how a population that’s characterized by certain psychological traits, or certain moral values, is likely to respond to a particular type of campaign. jesse graham, who is the george s. eccles chair in business ethics at the university of utah, is one of those experts. he’s one of the originators of “moral foundations theory,” which describes moral reasoning in terms of the interplay among a small set of foundational values, such as loyalty and fairness. that theory will be one of the starting points for the new project. he explains, “we’re trying to have some sort of taxonomy, or some sort of model, of what are the kinds of moral intuitions people have, [and] why do we have them.” “it feels like [this is] a really important topic, understanding what kinds of influence campaigns are happening out there in the world of social media, and trying to predict how people will respond to them,” graham says. “it’s a very, very big problem. but i think it’s a tractable one, that we can actually get some useful information out of.” the new darpa project is entitled “analytics of information influence: effect characterization.” in addition to abdelzaher and graham, the team includes faculty members jiawei han, an expert in data mining; heng ji, an expert in natural language processing; and hanghang tong, an ai expert (all of computer science, uiuc); boleslaw szymanski (computer science and physics, rensselaer polytechnic institute); and morteza dehghani (psychology and computer science, the university of southern california). see the original coordinated science lab story . contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');