additional required application materials for international students | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home admissions graduate admissions applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students why illinois cs explore courses rankings & statistics plan your visit financial aid tuition & fees awards english proficiency requirements: this section is for all students whose native language is not english, which includes permanent residents of the united states (green card). you may check to see if you are exempt from this requirement based on your country of citizenship . please be sure to carefully read the admissions requirement. update: in response to the temporary closings of testing centers in countries impacted by covid-19, the graduate college will temporarily accept duolingo english test examination results for tests taken between february 1, 2020 and august 1, 2022 . please refer to the graduate college english proficiency requirements page for further details. international applicants whose native language is not english must meet the english proficiency requirements for admission for the university of illinois. note: applicants to the online cs degree programs must satisfy requirements for "full status admission." international applicants are exempt from the toefl testing for admissions only if, within five years of the proposed term of enrollment, he or she has completed at least two academic years of full-time study as defined by the home institution, or completed a graduate degree in a country where english is the primary language and in a school where english is the primary language of instruction. all toefl test scores should be reported through ets to institution code 1836. a department code is not needed, however, if one is required, please use “78”.  ( you may upload a scanned pdf copy of the full official score report to your application as "supplemental material" until official scores are received.) additional information for online mcs and mcs-ds applicants mcs-ds applicants whose native language is not english and who do not qualify for an english proficiency exemption as described by the university of illinois graduate college will be considered for a waiver if they meet both of the following criteria: applicant is currently employed in a country where english is the primary language, as identified on this list . applicant has a minimum of two years of continuous past employment record in a country (or countries) on the list above. eligible applicants will be required to submit supporting documentation, sent to the department directly by their employer(s) . documentation indicating the period(s) of employment and location must be sent directly to online-mcs@cs.illinois.edu . if such documentation cannot be provided, applicants must meet the graduate college english proficiency requirement before the admission process can be finalized. to strengthen their application, these applicants are generally encouraged to submit official scores. financial aid considerations for on-campus applicants if you have applied to a graduate program (ms in cs, phd in cs) where departmental financial aid is offered, please note the following: to be eligible for any departmental financial aid, you must submit valid (less than two years old at start of classes) toefl ibt or ielts speak scores regardless of eligibility of waiver for admission requirements.  if currently working on an academic degree in the us or a country whose official native language is english (not medium of instruction), this requirement supersedes the waiver of the toefl by the university. this requirement is regardless of naturalized u.s. citizenship or permanent residency. non-submission of these scores will restrict the department from giving full financial aid considerations. to receive a teaching assistantship, you must meet the requirements detailed here: proficiency requirements for teaching assistantships .  a passing score on the toefl ibt (spoken portion of the exam only) is 24/30. and, a passing score on the ielts (on the spoken portion of the exam only) is 8. speak scores taken on a us campus other than illinois are not eligible to fulfill the teaching assistantship requirement at illinois. the department has no authority to waive this requirement. a passing score does not guarantee an assistantship offer. applicants that meet the requirements for teaching assistantships are given preference for admissions, but those with lower speak scores may still be eligible for a research assistantship (ra). applicants with toefl ibt speak scores below 22 have a low chance of admission. apply now become part of a tradition of excellence: of groundbreaking research, historic firsts, and future promise. begin undergraduate application begin graduate application contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');