abdussalam  alawini
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty abdussalam  alawini abdussalam  alawini teaching assistant professor (217) 300-8116 alawini@illinois.edu 4209 siebel center for comp sci for more information alawini.com education ph.d. computer science msc. engineering and technology management msc. computer science biography abdussalam alawini received the b.s. degree in  computer science from the university of tripoli in  2002, and the m.a.  and  ph.d. degrees in computer science from portland state university in 2011  and  2016.  dr. alawini is a teaching assistant professor with the department of computer science at the university of illinois at urbana-champaign. dr. alawini’s research interests are broadly in the field of databases, with a focus on scientific data management. he is particularly interested in applying machine learning methods to various problems of modern data management systems, including data provenance, data citation and managing file-based datasets. academic positions postdoctoral research fellow, university of pennsylvania, computer and information science, 07/2016-07/2018 resident instruction cs411 database systems research interests computer science education scientific data management data provenance database systems research areas computers and education data and information systems chapters in books alawini, a., borgan, m., alharbi, m., & zehr, w. (2011). call tracking-technology selection model. (s) alawini, a., tanatanmatorn, n., tucker, d., tucker, k., & daim, t. (2013). technology adoption: building it. in research and technology management in the electricity industry (pp. 213-228). springer, london. (s) articles in conference proceedings f alsaad, a alawini. (2020). unsupervised approach for modeling content structures of moocs.  proceedings of the 13th international conference on educational data mining (edm 2020) yinjun wu, abdussalam alawini, daniel deutch, tova milo, susan b. davidson. (2019). the 45th international conference on very large data base. vldb 2019 (la, usa 2019). zheng, n., alawini, a., ives, z. (2019). extending fine-grained provenance to etl tasks. the 35th international conference on data engineering (icde 2019,
china). alawini, a., chen, l., davidson, s., fisher, s., & kim, j. (2018, july). discovering similar workflows via provenance clustering: a case study. in international provenance and annotation workshop (pp. 115-127). springer, cham. wu, y., alawini, a., davidson, s. b., & silvello, g. (2018, may). data citation: giving credit where credit is due. in proceedings of the 2018 international conference on management of data (pp. 99-114). acm. alawini, a., davidson, s. b., silvello, g., tannen, v., & wu, y. (2018). data citation: a new provenance challenge. ieee data eng. bull., 41(1), 27-38. xu, j., zhang, w., alawini, a., & tannen, v. (2018). provenance analysis for missing answers and integrity repairs. data engineering, 39. alawini, a., davidson, s. b., hu, w., & wu, y. (2017). automating data citation in citedb. proceedings of the vldb endowment, 10(12), 1881-1884. alawini, a., chen, l., davidson, s. b., da silva, n. p., & silvello, g. (2017, june). automating data citation: the eagle-i experience. in digital libraries (jcdl), 2017 acm/ieee joint conference on (pp. 1-10). ieee. alawini, a., maier, d., tufte, k., howe, b., & nandikur, r. (2015, june). towards automated prediction of relationships among scientific datasets. in proceedings of the 27th international conference on scientific and statistical database management (p. 35). acm. alawini, a., maier, d., tufte, k., & howe, b. (2014, june). helping scientists reconnect their datasets. in proceedings of the 26th international conference on scientific and statistical database management (p. 29). acm. journal editorships the journal of information systems (2016) conferences organized or chaired proceedings co-chair, sigmod 2020 teaching honors teachers ranked as excellent  ( fall, spring, and summer of 2019) covid-19
wall of recognition in engineering (04/2021) public service honors portland state president’s award for university service. (2015) courses taught - last four years cs 411 - database systems cs 498 - cloud data management cs 498 - smart cities related news cs professors prepare to enhance engineering teaching through siip grants news | november 20, 2020 illinois computer science adds talented new faculty news | september 17, 2018 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');