kris k hauser
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty kris k hauser kris k hauser professor (217) 244-0821 kkhauser@illinois.edu 3233 siebel center for comp sci for more information intelligent motion lab webpage kris hauser's webpage. education ph.d., computer science, stanford university, 2008 b.a., mathematics, university of california at berkeley, 2003 b.a., computer science, university of california at berkeley, 2003 biography kris hauser is an associate professor in the department of computer science and the department of electrical and computer engineering at the university of illinois at urbana-champaign. his research interests lie in robot planning and control, a field devoted to providing the decision-making capabilities needed for robots and other intelligent agents to perform complex physical tasks. his research builds upon the theoretical foundations of state space dynamics and optimality, but attempts to overcome the shortcomings of classical theory when faced the complexities of real-world systems, such as high dimensionality, uncertain dynamics, bounded computation, and integration with perception and learning. the methodologies at the foundation of this work include optimization, probabilistic methods, ai, control theory, and physics simulation, and theory is bridged with practice on real-world physical robots in the context of a diverse range of applications with social impact, including robot locomotion and manipulation, medical robots, human-operated robots, warehouse automation, and intelligent vehicles. prof. hauser received his phd in computer science from stanford university in 2008, bachelor's degrees in computer science and mathematics from uc berkeley in 2003, and worked as a postdoctoral fellow at uc berkeley. he then joined the faculty at indiana university from 2009-2014, where he started the intelligent motion lab, and then joined the faculty of duke university from 2014-2019. prof. hauser is a recipient of a stanford graduate fellowship, siebel scholar fellowship, best paper award at ieee international conference on humanoid robots 2015, the nsf career award, and two amazon research awards. he also works as a consultant for google's autonomous driving company, waymo. academic positions associate professor, affiliate appointment, department of mechanical science and engineering, university of illinois at urbana-champaign, 2020-present associate professor, affiliate appointment, department of electrical and computer engineering, university of illinois at urbana-champaign, 2019-present associate professor, department of computer science, university of illinois at urbana-champaign, 2019-present associate professor, department of electrical and computer engineering, department of mechanical engineering and materials science, duke university, 2014-2019 assistant professor, department of computer science and informatics, indiana university, 2009-2014 undergraduate research opportunities i frequently involve undergraduates in my research, both as independent study students and summer interns. my lab also participates in competitions, so i also take on students who are interested in contributing to a team effort. we are currently involved in the ana avatar xprize challenge and looking for students with experience in robotics, virtual reality, distributed systems, and mechanical design. my minimum guidelines are that you have a 3.7 gpa, relevant coursework, and can contribute at least 10 hours per week to research. research interests robot motion planning and control, semiautonomous robots, and integrating perception and planning, as well as applications to intelligent vehicles, robotic manipulation, robot-assisted medicine, and legged locomotion. research areas artificial intelligence selected articles in journals m. draelos, g. tang, b. keller, a. kuo, k. hauser, j. a. izatt. optical coherence tomography guided robotic needle insertion for deep anterior lamellar keratoplasty. ieee transactions on biomedical engineering, nov. 20, 2019. doi:10.1109/tbme.2019.2954505 k. hauser, s. wang, and m. cutkosky. efﬁcient equilibrium testing under adhesion and anisotropy using empirical contact force models. ieee transactions on robotics, 34(5):1157-1169, 2018. doi: 10.1109/tro.2018.2831722 k. hauser. learning the problem-optimum map: analysis and application to global optimization in robotics. ieee transaction on robotics, 33(1):141-152, 2017. (impact factor 2.432) k. hauser and y. zhou. asymptotically optimal planning by feasible kinodynamic planning in state-cost space. ieee transactions on robotics, 32(6): 1431-1443, 2016. (impact factor 2.432) k. hauser.  the minimum constraint removal problem with three robotics applications. international journal of robotics research (ijrr), 33(1):5-17, january, 2014. doi: 10.1177/0278364913507795 (impact factor: 2.863) c. bennett and k. hauser.  artificial intelligence framework for simulating clinical decision-making: a markov decision process approach.  artificial intelligence in medicine, 57(1):9-19, january 2013. doi: 10.1016/j.artmed.2012.12.003. (impact factor: 1.345) k. hauser, t. bretl, j.-c latombe, k. harada, and b. wilcox, motion planning for legged robots in varied terrain. international journal of robotics research (ijrr), vol. 27(11-12), pp. 1325-1349, 2008. (impact factor: 4.095) articles in conference proceedings g. tang, w. sun, and k. hauser. time-optimal trajectory generation for dynamic vehicles: a bilevel optimization approach. ieee/rsj international conference on intelligent robots and systems (iros), october, 2019. (45% acceptance rate) f. wang and k. hauser. robot packing with known items and nondeterministic arrival order. robotics: science and systems (rss), june 2019. best paper award nominee.  (31% acceptance rate) f. wang and k. hauser. stable bin packing of non-convex 3d objects with a robot manipulator. ieee international conference on robotics and automation, may, 2019.  (44% acceptance rate) y. zhu, l. abdulmajeid, and k. hauser. data-driven approach for fast simulation of robot locomotion on granular media. ieee international conference on robotics and automation, may, 2019.  (44% acceptance rate) s. wang and k. hauser. real-time stabilization of a falling humanoid robot using hand contact: an optimal control approach. ieee-ras int'l conference on humanoid robots, november, 2017.  (54% acceptance rate) z. li, p. moran, c. dong, r. shaw, and k. hauser. development of a tele-nursing mobile manipulator for remote care-giving in quarantine areas. ieee int'l. conf. on robotics and automation (icra), may 2017. (41% acceptance rate) service on college committees associate director for robotics, center for autonomy, 2019- teaching honors indiana university women in computing inspirational teacher award (2011) research honors amazon research award (2020) amazon research award (2019) amazon research award (2018) best paper award, ieee conference on humanoid robots (humanoids) (2015) nsf career award (2013) courses taught - last four years cs 498 - ai for robot manipulation cs 498 - intelligent robots cs 598 - adv comp. topics in robotics related news nsf grants provide $2.25 million to support new research projects launched in october news | november 17, 2020 the future of farming is autonomous news | october 29, 2020 dpi awards r&d grants to support illinois cs faculty news | september 4, 2020 illinois to lead 2 of 7 new national ai institutes, adve to direct aifarms news | august 26, 2020 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');