kenton guadron mchenry
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty kenton guadron mchenry kenton guadron mchenry research assistant professor, ncsa (217) 265-5387 mchenry@illinois.edu 2002b nat center for suprcomp appl education ph.d. in computer science, university of illinois at urbana-champaign b.s. in computer science, california state university of san bernardino research areas artificial intelligence data and information systems articles in conference proceedings c. willis, m. lambert, k. mchenry, c. kirkpatrick, “container-based analysis environments for low-barrier access to research data”, pearc, 2017. c. sophocleous, l. marini, r. georgiou, m. elfarargy, k. mchenry, “medici 2: a scalable content management system for cultural heritage datasets”, code4lib journal, 2017. p. nguyen, s. konstanty, t. nicholson, t. o’brien, a. schwartz-duval, t. spila, k. nahrstedt, r. campbell, i. gupta, m. chan, k. mchenry, n. paquin, “4ceed: real-time acquisition and analysis framework for materials-related cyber-physical environments”, the 17th ieee/acm international symposium on cluster, cloud and grid computing (ccgrid), 2017. (best paper award) y. zhao, e. black, l. marini, k. mchenry, n. kenyon, r. patil, a. kajdacsy-balla, a. bartholomew, “automatic glomerulus extraction in whole slide images towards comptuer aided diagnosis”, ieee escience, 2016. m. dietze, e. cowdery, a. desai, a. gardella, r. kelly, r. kooper, d. lebauer, j. mantooth, k. mchenry, s. serbin, a. shiklomanov, j. simkins, t. viskari and a. raiho, “chasing the long tail of environmental data: pecan is nuts about brown dog”, agu, 2015. s. padhy, g. jansen, j. alameda, e. black, l. diesendruck, m. dietze, p. kumar, r. kooper, j. lee, r. liu, r. marciano, l. marini, d. mattson, b. minsker, c. navarro, m. slavenas, w. sullivan, j. votava, k. mchenry, “brown dog: leveraging everything towards autocuration”, ieee big data, 2015. s. padhy, e. black, b. cowdery, l. diesendruck, m. dietze, g. jansen, r. kooper, p. kumar, j. lee, r. lui, r. marciano, l. marini, d. mattson, b. minsker, c. navarro, a. rai, m. slavenas, w. sullivan, j. votava, q. yan, i. zharnistsky, k. mchenry, “autocuration cyberinfrastructure for scientific discovery and preservation”, ieee escience, 2015. e. black, l. marini, a. vaidya, d. berman, m. willman, d. salomon, a. bartholomew, n. kenyon, k. mchenry, “using hidden markov models to determine changes in subject data over time, studying the immunoregulatory effect of mesenchymal stem cells”, ieee escience, 2014. l. diesendruck, r. kooper, l. marini, k. mchenry, “using lucene to index and search the digitized 1940 us census”, concurrency and computation: practice and experience, 2014. m. dietze, s. serbin, c. davidson, a. desai, x. feng, r. kelly, r. kooper, d. lebauer, j. mantooth, k. mchenry, d. wang, “a quantitative assessment of a terrestrial biosphere model’s data needs across north american biomes”, journal of geophysical research - biogeosciences, 2014. s.p. satheesan, m.s. poole, r. kooper, k. mchenry, “groupscope: a microscope for large dy- namic groups research”, ieee escience, 2013. l. diesendruck, r. kooper, l. marini, k. mchenry, “using lucene to index and search the digitized 1940 us census”, xsede, 2013. (best paper award and best science & engineering track paper award) l. diesendruck, l. marini, r. kooper, m. kejriwal, k. mchenry, “a framework to access hand- written information within large digitized paper collections”, ieee escience, 2012. l. diesendruck, l. marini, r. kooper, m. kejriwal, k. mchenry, “digitization and search: a non- traditional use of hpc”, ieee escience workshop on extending high performance computing beyond its traditional user communities, 2012. k. mchenry, r. kooper, m. ondrejcek, l. marini, p. bajcsy, “a mosaic of software”, the ieee international conference on escience, 2011. k. mchenry, r. kooper, p. bajcsy, “towards a universal, quantifiable, and scalable file format converter”, the ieee international conference on escience, 2009. other outside service technical coordinator, national data service consortium, 2015-2017 coordinator, midwest big data hub, 2015-2016 associate director, institute for computing in humanities, arts, and social sciences (i-chass), 2011-2016 related news load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');