mcs on-campus general advising for registration | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home academics graduate academics graduate forms & advising resources new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration new professional mcs student registration guidelines for on-campus students - first semester general advising we are excited you are joining our team! this site is designed to give you guidance on registering for your first courses. you are in a professional, non-thesis, self-funded master's program. there is no research in this master's degree. graduate advisors can be reached at academic@cs.illinois.edu or on the cs graduate advising queue . please review the professional mcs planning document to help guide you on the program requirements. information about your first-semester enrollment procedures will be included in your notice of admission. with increased enrollments in the cs department and on campus, cs courses tend to fill up quickly. we request that all new students follow the directions and register for their first semester as soon as registration is available to them. international students international students must check-in at the international student and scholar services office (isss). check-in details and schedules are available on the isss website.  international students must arrive on campus by the start date listed on your i-20 or ds-2019. registration registration for fall 2021 courses opens on may 6, 2021. we highly recommend that you register as soon as possible after this date. with increased enrollments in the cs department and on campus, cs courses tend to fill up quickly so we request that you register as soon as it is possible to do so. steps to complete for course registration to start the registration process, you must first setup your netid and password. the instructions for this were given to you in your "official offer letter" from the graduate college. if you missed the link, please go to http://www.grad.illinois.edu/quick-guide . go to https://registrar.illinois.edu/registration/registration-process/ to sign up for classes. to review the courses that will be offered in computer science, please visit the course explorer . courses at the 400- and 500-level carry graduate credit. number of minimum credit hours all professional mcs students in the on-campus program are required to register for at least 12 credit hours per semester toward the degree requirements in their first two (regular) semesters. on-campus mcs students have up to 3 continuous semesters to complete the degree requirements.  in the third semester, students are only required to take any remaining course credits necessary to complete their degree requirements. selecting courses for your first semester, we recommend that you select courses that interest you and start to complete the " breadth requirement ". in addition, we recommend that you do a mix of 400 and 500 level courses. graduate students are free to register for any 400 or 500-level course. if there is a pre-requisite for a course, it is your responsibility to ensure you have the prior knowledge required for the course. in addition, 400-level courses are introductory graduate level courses and can be taken for either 3 or 4 credits. if you select the 4 credit hour 400-level course, the faculty will usually have you do a project or paper for the extra credit hour.  during the early registration period, graduate students must register for the 4 credit section of the 400-level courses.  if you wish to take a 400-level course only for 3 credits, you may change the credits after the 10th day of the term.  all 500-level courses are taken for 4 credit hours. graduate academic office contact information department of computer science graduate academic office university of illinois 201 north goodwin, 1210 siebel center urbana, il 61801 campus mail code: mc-258 phone: (217) 333-4428 fax: (217) 244-6073 email: academic@cs.illinois.edu office hours monday – friday morning: 8:00 am to 11:45 am afternoon: 1:00 pm to 4:45 pm walk-in advising hours start at 10:00 am list of graduate advising contacts and virtual advising queue contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');