media coverage | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home news media coverage a digest of illinois computer science faculty, alumni, and students who are featured in the media. new method of us army accelerates ai decision-making september 9, 2021 army recognition -- “the computational requirements of ai in the battlefield are burdensome for many low-capacity devices,” said dr. tarek abdelzaher, a professor at the university of illinois urbana-champaign and the academic lead of the lab’s iobt cra. “offloading data from the field to a more computationally capable machine is a potential solution to facilitate more efficient processing.” read the article . salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code september 7, 2021 venturebeat -- recent studies suggest that ai has a ways to go before it can reliably generate code. in june, a team of researchers at the university of california at berkeley, cornell, the university of chicago, and the university of illinois at urbana-champaign released apps, a benchmark for code generation from natural language specifications. read the article . covid-19 vaccine exemptions make no sense september 6, 2021 the hill -- people are seeking exemptions to avoid covid-19 vaccination. a closer look at them reveals that they are creating more harm than good, both for the people looking to get out of being vaccinated and efforts to end the pandemic, writes illinois cs professor sheldon h. jacobson. read the article . army's compressive offloading method could speed up battlefield decision-making september 3, 2021 executivegov.com -- “for example, in an application where the goal is to recognize different types of vehicles in an image, what cues are used by the ai to distinguish the different types of vehicles?” said tarek abdelzaher, a professor at the university of illinois urbana-champaign and the academic lead of the lab’s iobt cra.  “those cues should be preserved by compression when data is sent from the field. other irrelevant information can be compressed away to improve compression abilities." read the article . virtual dressing room startup revery.ai applying computer vision to the fashion industry august 23, 2021 techcrunch -- under the tutelage of university of illinois center for computer science adviser david forsyth, a team consisting of phd students kedan li, jeffrey zhang and min jin chong, is creating what they consider to be the first tool using existing catalog images to process at a scale of over a million garments weekly, something previous versions of virtual dressing rooms had difficulty doing, li told techcrunch. read the article . course hero acquires iconic study guides: cliffsnotes august 19, 2021 yahoo! finance -- in addition to cliffsnotes, course hero is acquiring quillbot, an ai-powered platform used by millions of people to improve their writing skills. the platform offers a suite of writing tools including a grammar checker and citation generator that provides users with the feedback they need to more clearly communicate their ideas and develop well-rounded writing skills. quillbot was started by computer science students, rohan gupta, anil jason, and david silin, while at university of illinois urbana-champaign in 2017. read the article . are apple's tools against child abuse bad for your privacy? august 18, 2021 the new york times -- in statements provided by apple, the president of the national center for missing and exploited children called it a “game changer,” while david forsyth, chairman of computer science at the university of illinois at urbana-champaign, said that the technology would catch child abusers and that “harmless users should experience minimal to no loss of privacy.” read the article . time is ripe for computational redistricting to expose gerrymandering august 16, 2021 the hill -- the outcome of gerrymandering is that politicians pick their voters rather than voters picking their representatives, a process that is precisely backward in a democracy. without elections that require candidates to work for their votes, elected representatives are likely less inclined to be responsive to the wishes and needs of their constituents. what is the solution? transparency. read the article . unvaccinated workers could end up paying $50 more for health insurance - per paycheck august 13, 2021 cbs news -- "the point is that personal choices have financial consequences," said sheldon h. jacobson, a professor of computer science who focuses on risk at the university of illinois at urbana-champaign. "in covid-19, the decision to not take a vaccine is not just a personal decision." read the article . op-ed: every covid infection is an opportunity for virus mutation. we can reduce the risk. august 9, 2021 the indianapolis star -- with the delta variant now dominant across the nation, hospitals are seeing more young and middle age people seeking medical care.  what is driving this phenomenon? the answer follows from the volume of infections and the uptake of the vaccines. read the article . load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');