cs cares committee | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about cs cares committee cs cares committee purpose governance members & responsibilities resources contact cs cares values & code of conduct cs cares committee: members sarita v. adve cs cares chair richard t. cheng professor sadve@illinois.edu ananya cleetus cs undergraduate cleetus2@illinois.edu jeff erickson sohaib and sara abbasi professor jeffe@illinois.edu steven herzog assistant director of undergraduate programs smherzog@illinois.edu karrie karahalios professor kkarahal@illinois.edu ranjitha kumar associate professor ranjitha@illinois.edu ruta mehta assistant professor rutameht@illinois.edu vidushi ojha cs graduate student vojha3@illinois.edu eric shaffer teaching associate professor shaffer1@illinois.edu tiffani l. williams teaching professor tiffani@illinois.edu tianyin xu assistant professor tyxu@illinois.edu cs cares committee: responsibilities availability: cares holds at least one in-person or zoom “walk-in” office hour each week day and provides an email account and phone number that is monitored frequently. events: cares aims to provide representatives to attend most large cs department events so that any concerns that may arise during such events can be brought to immediate attention. cares representatives announce their presence at these events. support: cares supports community members in addressing concerns about violations of the code in ways described in the “purpose” section of this document, while respecting the ethics, confidentiality, and conflicts of interest rules described in the next section. outreach: cares conducts outreach to make the cs community aware of the code and the role of cares in enabling the community to uphold the code. cares committee members are expected to contribute equally to achieve the above goals for cares. the initial cares committees will also be responsible for evolution of various aspects of cares operations. for example, mechanisms to archive confidential cares records (in collaboration with it staff) need to be developed. it is expected that the department, college, and/or university will make training materials available to cares members in the future. cares members are expected to complete all such training as these materials become available. cs cares committee: ethics, confidentiality, and conflicts of interest committee members are held to the highest standards of conduct and discretion. they must abide by all pertinent rules of the university of illinois and of title ix. all concerns brought to cares members are treated with utmost confidentiality outside of cares, unless permitted by the person raising the concern. by default, all concerns are conveyed to the cares chair and the vice-chair, who use their discretion and determination of conflicts of interest (see below) to determine a (preferably minimal) subset of the committee with whom to share the concern. the community member raising the concern may explicitly request that it not be shared with certain members of the cares committee. if a violation of the code is reported against a committee member, the member is recused from cares activities until a decision on the credibility of the report can be made. an official investigation that finds such a report to be credible results in removal of the member from cares. if a cares committee member has a conflict of interest with the person against whom a concern is reported to them (e.g., advisor/advisee, collaborator, close colleague, etc.), the committee member will immediately refer the reporter to another committee member. a committee member with a conflict of interest on a concern cannot participate in any discussion related to the concern. contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');