olgica milenkovic
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty olgica milenkovic olgica milenkovic professor, electrical and computer engineering (217) 244-7358 milenkov@illinois.edu 311 coordinated science lab for more information personal web-page: link education phd, electrical and computer engineering, university of michigan, ann arbor, 2002 msc, mathematics, university of michigan, ann arbor, 2001 academic positions visiting professor, university of california, san diego 2006-2007 assistant professor, university of colorado, boulder 2002-2007 major consulting activities consultant, bell labs-lucent technology, may 2005 - may 2006 professional registrations fellow of the ieee other professional activities board of governors, information theory society research statement the current research focus of our group is on 1) developing new approaches for studying problems in bioinformatics and bioengineering using coding and information theory. in particular, we investigate fundamental questions pertaining to design methodologies for dna microarrays with error- and quality-control features and dna microarrays that utilize compressed sensing principles. 2) providing a bridge between the theory of compressed sensing and superimposed coding; non-linear compressive sensing with quantization and fault-tolerant sensing algorithms. 3) using coding and information theory to study problems such as rna folding, reverse engineering of gene-regulatory networks, and cost-constrained genome reversal distances. 4) constructing and analyzing codes on graphs and developing new methods for studying the combinatorial properties of random ensembles of low-density parity-check codes. our studies mainly focus on the computational complexity of problems quantifying the error-floor phenomena. 5) analyzing the connections between network coding, matroid theory, and algebraic coding theory. 6) analyzing the average case complexity of algorithms in coding theory and computer algebra. research interests learning in hyperbolic spaces graph theory applications of steiner systems hypergraph clustering dna-based data storage, coding for dna-based data storage, string reconstruction community detection via correlation clustering social sciences and voting theory rank aggregation compressive sensing signal processing information theory constrained coding error-control coding (algebraic/iterative) bioinformatics analysis of algorithms research areas bioinformatics and computational biology journal editorships editor, foundations and trends in information theory and communications, 2020-2022. guest-editor-in-chief, special issue of the ieee transactions on information theory dedicated to v. i. levenshtein, 2019-2020 associate editor, ieee transactions on molecular communication, 2016-2017 associate editor, ieee transactions on information theory, 2011-2013 associate editor, ieee transactions on signal processing, 2009-2011 guest editor in chief, special issue on information theory in molecular biology and neuroscience, ieee transactions on information theory, 2008. associate editor for coding theory, ieee transactions on communication theory, 2007-2010. honors plenary speaker, international symposium on information theory, 2020. plenary speaker, information theory workshop, visby, sweden, 2019. jack k. wolf (jkw) lecturer, ucsd, 2019. distinguished lecturer, ieee information theory society, 2018. the helix vault: storing information in dna macromolecules, spawc, plenary talk, june 2018 plenary speaker, ist young scientist symposium, austria 2017. plenary speaker, 7th annual henry taub tce conference, technion plenary speaker, mit lids student conference, 2016 ieee data storage technical committee (dstc) best paper award, 2016 dean's excellence in research award, 2013 willett scholar, 2013-2017 center for advanced study associate, 2013 turbo coding conference plenary speaker, gottebourgh, sweden, 2012 research honors ieee fellow (2018) distinguished lecturer, information theory society 2017-2018. (2017) ieee data storage technical committee (dstc) best paper award, 2016 (2016) best student paper award (jointly with jayadev acharya (student award recipient) and a. orlitsky, isit 2010. (2010) top-three paper award, wcmb'08, leipzig, germany (2008) nsf career award (2007) darpa young faculty award (2007) runner-up for best paper award (honorable mentioning), icc'06, istanbul, turkey (2006) rackham pre-doctoral fellowship, university of michigan (2001) best undergraduate thesis award, department of electrical engineering, university of nis, yugoslavia courses taught - last four years ece 313 - probability with engrg applic ece 534 - random processes ece 556 - coding theory ece 559 - topics in communications ece 563 - information theory math 362 - probability with engrg applic related news load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');