sayan mitra
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty sayan mitra sayan mitra professor, electrical and computer engineering (217) 333-7824 mitras@illinois.edu 266 coordinated science lab for more information sayan mitra's home page education ph.d., mit, 2007. thesis title: "a verification framework for hybrid systems." advisor: nancy lynch biography sayan is a professor of ece and an affiliate professor of cs at the university of illinois, urbana-champaign. his  book on verification of cyber-physical systems was published by mit press in 2021. he received the national science foundation's career award, afosr young investigator research program award, ieee-hkn c. holmes macdonald outstanding teaching award, a siebel fellowship, and several best paper awards. academic positions postdoctoral scholar, center for mathematics of information, 2007-08 summer faculty fellow, air force research laboratory, kirtland, nm 2011 teaching statement research statement the goal our research is to develop algorithms and software tools for safe autonomous systems. we use techniques from theoretical computer science and control theory. graduate research opportunities we are looking for graduate students with background in cs theory (formal methods, logic, automata theory, algorithms) and/or control theory. solid programming skills & other mathematical background (e.g. stochastic processes) would be a plus. as an graduate researcher you will develop new verification and synthesis algorithms, build tools, and perform experiments in using these tools on real systems. undergraduate research opportunities we are looking for juniors/seniors with solid programming skills (e.g., c/c++, java, matlab) and who intend to go to grad school in one of the related research areas. preference will be given to those who can commit to working at least 6-8 hours a week for a couple of semesters. you will work closely with one of the graduate students towards developing software tools or applying them to verify a systems. this typically leads to an undergraduate thesis or publishable work. take a look at some of the research projects. research interests formal verification and synthesis safe ai and autonomy research areas cyber-physical computing embedded systems programming languages / formal methods / software engineering security and privacy books authored or co-authored (original editions) verifying cyber-physical systems: a path to safe autonomy, by sayan mitra. mit press, february, 2021. selected articles in journals controller synthesis for linear system with reach-avoid specifications. chuchu fan, zengyi qin, umang mathur, qiang ning, sayan mitra, and mahesh viswanathan. accepted for publication in ieee transactions in automatic control (tac), 2021. koord: a language for programming and verifying distributed robotics applications. ritwika ghosh, chiao hsieh, sasa misailovic, and sayan mitra.  in acm proceedings on programming languages (oopsla), volume 4, 2020. entropy and minimal bit rates for state estimation and model detection. daniel liberzon and  sayan mitra. ieee transactions in automatic control (tac), 63(10):3330-3344, 2018. differential privacy and entropy in distributed feedback systems: minimizing mechanisms and performance trade-offs.zhenqi huang, yu wang, sayan mitra, and geir dullerud. in ieee transactions on control of network systems (tcns), 4(1): 118-130, 2017. data-driven formal reasoning and their applications in safety analysis of vehicle autonomy features. chuchu fan, bolun qi, and  sayan mitra. ieee design & test. january, 2018. simulation-driven reachability using matrix measures. chuchu fan, james kapinski, xiaoqing jin, sayan mitra. acm trans. embedded computing systems 17(1): 21:1-21:28 (2018) bounded invariant verification for time-delayed nonlinear networked dynamical systems. zhenqi huang, chuchu fan, and sayan mitra. in ifac journal on nonlinear analysis: hybrid systems (nahs), vol. 23, pages 211–229, february 2017, elsevier. simulation-based verification of cardiac pacemakers with guaranteed coverage. zhenqi huang, chuchu fan, alexandru mereacre, sayan mitra and marta z. kwiatkowska. ieee design & test, volume 32(5), pages 27-34, 2015. safe and stabilizing distributed multi-path cellular flows. taylor t. johnson and sayan mitra. theoretical computer science, 2015, elsevier. hybrid automata-based cegar for rectangular hybrid systems. pavithra prabhakar, parasara sridhar duggirala, sayan mitra,  and mahesh viswanathan. formal methods in systems design (fmsd), february 2015, springer. verification of periodically controlled hybrid systems: application to an autonomous vehicle,  tichakorn wongpiromsarn, sayan mitra,andrew lamperski, richard murray. in a special issue of the acm transactions on embedded computing systems (tecs) 11(s2): 53 (2012). specifying and proving properties of timed i/o automata using tempo. myla archer, hongping lim, nancy lynch, sayan mitra, and shinya umeno journal of  design automation for embedded systems, vol 2, num 1-2 , june 2008, springer. verifying average dwell time of hybrid systems. sayan mitra, daniel liberzon and nancy lynch. in acm transactions in embedded computing systems (tecs) , vol 8, issue 1, pages 1-37 2008. articles in conference proceedings planning in dynamic and partially unknown environments.
kristina miller, chuchu fan, and sayan mitra.
in proceedings of   7th ifac conference on analysis and design of hybrid systems (adhs'21), july 7-9, 2021. fast and guaranteed safe controller synthesis. chuchu fan, kristina miller, and sayan mitra.
in  proceedings of   32nd intl.  conf. on computer aided verification (cav 2020), los angeles, lncs 12224, pages 629--652, springer, 2020. cyphyhouse: a programming, simulation, and deployment toolchain for heterogeneous distributed coordination.
 ritwika ghosh, joao p. jansch-porto, chiao hsieh, amelia gosse, minghao jiang, hebron taylor, peter du, sayan mitra, geir dullerud.
in  proceedings of   intl.  conf. on robotics and automation (icra 2020),   paris, 2020. online monitoring for safe pedestrian-vehicle interactions.
peter du, zhe huang, tianqi liu, ke xu, qichao gao, hussein sibai, katherine driggs-campbell, and sayan mitra.
in  proceedings of   23rd ieee intl.  conf.  on intelligent transportation systems, virtual conference, 2020. fast and guaranteed safe controller synthesis for aerial vehicle models.
chuchu fan, kristina miller, and sayan mitra. aiaa scitech, 2021. multi-agent safety verification using symmetry transformations. hussein sibai, navid mokhlesi, chuchu fan, and sayan mitra. in  proceedings of 26th intl. conf. on tools and algorithms for the construction and analysis of systems (tacas 2020), dublin, ireland, springer 2020. dione: a protocol verification system built with dafny for i/o automata. chiao hsieh and sayan mitra. in proceedings of integrated formal methods (ifm 2019), bergen, norway. lncs vol 11918, pages 227-245, springer, 2019. using symmetry transformations in equivariant dynamical systems for their safety verification. hussein sibai, navid mokhlesi, and sayan mitra. in  proceedings of 17th automated technology for verification and analysis (atva 2019), taipei, taiwan. lncs vol 11781, pages 98-114, springer 2019.  nominated for best paper award. tightrope: towards optimal load-balancing of paths in anonymous networks.  hussein darir, hussein sibai, nikita borisov, geir e. dullerud, and sayan mitra. in proceedings of the workshop on privacy in the electronic society (wpes) held with the acm ccs conference, 2018: 76-85 controller synthesis made real: reach-avoid specifications and linear dynamics. chuchu fan, umang mathur, sayan mitra, and mahesh viswanathan. in  proceedings of computer aided verification (cav 2018), oxford, springer, 2018. verified hybrid lq control for autonomous spacecraft rendezvous. nicole chan and sayan mitra, in ieee international conference on decision and control (cdc`17), melbourne, australia, 2017. dryvr: data-driven verification and compositional reasoning for automotive systems . chuchu fan, bolun qi, sayan mitra, and mahesh viswanathan. in proceedings of computer aided verification (cav), heidelberg, 2017. optimal data rate for state estimation of switched nonlinear systems. hussein sibaie and sayan mitra. in the proceedings of the 20th acm international conference on hybrid systems: computation and control, april 2017. nominated for best paper award . differential privacy in control and network systems. j. cortés, g. e. dullerud, s. han, j. le ny, s. mitra, and g. j. pappas. in the proceedings of 55th ieee conference on decision and control (cdc), pages 4252-4272, december 2016, las vegas, nv. entropy notions for state estimation and model detection with finite-data-rate measurements. daniel liberzon and sayan mitra. in the proceedings of 55th ieee conference on decision and control (cdc), pages 7335–7340, december 2016, las vegas, nv. locally optimal reach set over-approximation for nonlinear systems. chuchu fan, james kapinski, xiaoqing jin, and sayan mitra. in the proceedings of acm sigbed conference on embedded software (emsoft) 2016, pittsburgh, pa. nominated for best paper award. automatic reachability analysis for nonlinear hybrid models with c2e2. chuchu fan, bolun qi, sayan mitra, mahesh viswanathan, and parasara sridhar duggirala. in the proceedings of 28th international conference on computer aided verification (cav), lncs 9779, pages 531–538, toronto, springer 2016. entropy and minimal data rates for state estimation and model detection. daniel liberzon and sayan mitra. in proceedings of 19th acm international conference on hybrid system: computation and control (hscc 2016), vienna, austria. controller synthesis for linear time-varying systems with adversaries. zhenqi huang, yu wang, sayan mitra, and geir dullerud. in the proceedings of the 55th ieee conference on decision and control (cdc 2015), osaka, japan, 2015. meeting a powertrain verification challenge. parasara sridhar duggirala, chuchu fan, sayan mitra, and mahesh viswanathan. in the proceedings of computer aided verification - 27th international conference (cav 2015), lncs 9206, pages 536—543. san francisco, july 18-24, 2015. starl: towards a unified framework for programming, simulating and verifying distributed robotic systems. yixiao lin and sayan mitra. in the proceedings of the 16th acm sig- plan/sigbed conference on languages, compilers and tools for embedded systems, (lctes 2015), pages 1–10. portland, or, usa, june. bounded verification with on-the-fly discrepancy computation. chuchu fan and sayan mitra. in the proceedings of 13th international symposium on automated technology for verification and analysis (atva 2015), shanghai, china. progress on powertrain verification challenge with c2e2. chuchu fan, parasara sridhar duggirala, sayan mitra, and mahesh viswanathan. in workshop on applied verification for continuous and hybrid systems (arch 2015) held as part of cpsweek 2015. robert bosch sponsored best results award. a strategy for automatic verification of stabilization of distributed algorithms. ritwika ghosh∗ and sayan mitra. in the proceedings of 35th ifip wg 6.1 international conference on formal techniques for distributed objects, components, and systems (forte 2015), grenoble, france, june 2-4. lncs 9039, pages 35-49, springer 2015. nominated for best paper award. differentially private distributed optimization. zhenqi huang, sayan mitra, and nitin vaidya. in the proceedings of the international conference on distributed computing and networks, january 2015.(acceptance: 21%) c2e2: a verification tool for annotated stateflow models. parasara sridhar duggirala, sayan mitra, mahesh viswanathan, and matthew potok.  in the proceedings of the 21st international conference on tools and algorithms for the construction and analysis of systems (tacas), 2015. (acceptance 17%) invariant verification of nonlinear hybrid automata networks of cardiac cells. zhenqi huang, chuchu fan, alexandru mereacre, sayan mitra, and marta kwiatkowska. in the proceedings of the computer-aided verification  (cav 2014), july 2014 (part of the vienna summer of logic, vsl 2014). springer.(acceptance 25%) proofs from simulations and modular annotations. zhenqi huang and sayan mitra. in 17th international conference on hybrid systems: computation and control (hscc). berlin,  2014. acm press. verification of annotated models from executions. parasara sridhar duggirala, sayan mitra, and mahesh viswanathan. in the proceedings of the international conference on embedded software (emsoft 2013), montreal, canada, april 2013. static and dynamic analysis of timed distributed traces. parasara sridhar duggirala, taylor
johnson, adam zimmerman, and sayan mitra. in the proceedings of the 33rd ieee real-time
systems symposium (rtss), 2012, ieee press. (acceptance: 23%, premier conference) a small model theorem for rectangular hybrid automata networks.
taylor johnson and sayan mitra. in the proceedings of 32nd ifip international conference on
formal techniques for distributed systems: formal techniques for networked and distributed
systems (forte), stockholm, sweden, june 2012. lncs vol 7273, pages 18-34, springer. (acceptance 38%, premier conference) (received the best paper award out of 155 submissions in discotec'12). lyapunov abstractions for verifying inevitability of hybrid systems. parasara s. duggirala and sayan mitra. in the proceedings of 15th international conference on hybrid systems: computation and control (hscc 2012), pages 115-124, beijing, prc. april 2012. acm press. diﬀerentially private iterative synchronous consensus. zhenqi huang, sayan mitra and
geir dullerud. in proceedings of the workshop on diﬀerentially private iterative synchronous
consensus in conjunction with the acm ccs conference, raleigh, nc, 2012. (acceptance 29%) invited lectures entropy and data rates for estimation, detection, and verification. verification for safe autonomy: challenges and recent developments. optimal data rate estimation and model detection for safe autonomy. abstractions for safety and stability verification of cyber-physical systems. verification of hybrid systems through abstractions and approximations abstraction-refinement for hybrid system verification: an air-traffic control case study replication-based fault tolerance in wireless distributed control. programming mobile robots in the face of faults. magazine articles verifying cyber-physical interactions in safety-critical systems. sayan mitra, tichakorn wongpiromsarn, and  richard murray. in a special issue of ieee security & privacy magazine on safety-critical systems, june 2013. conferences organized or chaired organizing committee member for the cyber-physical systems week 2011, chicago, usa. program committee member for the 14th international conference on hybrid systems: computation and control (hscc 2011), chicago, usa. pc member, acm international conference on hybrid systems: computation and control (hscc
2012), beijing. session organizer for "cyber-physical system verification" at 50th annual allerton conference, 2012. pc member, acm international conference on hybrid systems: computation and control (hscc 2013), philadelphis, pa. pc member, ieee/acm international conference on cyberphysical systems(iccps 2013), philadelphia, pa. pc member, special session on design of cyber-physical systems at euromicro conference on digital system design (dsd), santander, spain on 4-6 sept 2013. other scholarly activities hybrid abstraction refinement engine (hare): a software tool for verification of hybrid systems has been developed (in c++) and released. several verification case studies (approx. 10) have been performed. passel: a software tool for verifying networks of hybrid automata http://publish.illinois.edu/passel-tool/ professional societies hkn acm ieee senior member honors national science foundation's faculty early career development (career) award (2011) air-force office of scientific research (afosr) young investigator research award (2012) college of engineering dean's award for excellence in research (2018) student chuchu fan's phd thesis nominated for the acm doctoral dissertation award from illinois. the thesis was awarded the csl dissertation award. (2020) teaching honors ieee-eta kappa nu's c. holmes macdonald  outstanding electrical and computer engineering teacher award.  (2013) courses taught - last four years cs 584 - embedded system verification ece 220 - computer systems & programming ece 498 - autonomous systems ece 498 - principles of safe autonomy ece 584 - embedded system verification ece 598 - special topics in ece related news cs faculty secure new nsf grants totaling $4.2 million news | september 8, 2020 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');