new grant helps illinois cs develop programs to support undergraduate women in cs | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home news new grant helps illinois cs develop programs to support undergraduate women in cs 8/24/2021 9:11:48 am aaron seidlitz, illinois cs in may, illinois cs was awarded a two-year grant worth approximately $930,000 from northeastern university’s center for inclusive computing to assist our efforts in broadening participation in computing. for years, illinois cs has made broadening participation in computing (bpc) one of the core values of the department. however, department head nancy m. amato noted that financial support for this goal from external resources was rare to come by. an impactful resource nancy amato, department head “the goal of the project is to increase by 10 percent the number of undergraduate women graduating with computing degrees. i hope we can do that; i hope we can do better than that, actually. but, more generally, if we can make this department more inclusive and welcoming to women, then we will make it better for everyone.” mahesh viswanathan, professor and associate head for academics “the cic grant speaks to something that we’ve been trying to do, and that’s make computing education available for everyone. we do this not just through degrees but through a cs minor that any student at the university of illinois urbana-champaign can take. to interest all students, though, we must make this program as welcoming and inclusive as possible. the cic grant will help us introduce activities that will help with this goal.” colleen m. lewis, associate professor “our department has made bpc an emphasis here for a long time. i think you see that in a lot of the pedagogy, so the cic grant provides helpful bootstrapping for us as we put some more pieces in place. we already have so many people in our community working to make illinois cs inclusive and welcoming, which is great. this financial support equates to a match that, when struck, will allow for even more creativity based upon the beliefs we already hold up high.” that changed in may, as the department was awarded a two-year grant worth  $929,500 from the center for inclusive computing (cic) at northeastern university – representing the most substantial source of funding the department has received to date for bpc. the cic grant will support efforts – staffing, training and programs – that ensure women are fully represented and thriving in undergraduate computing. “since i joined the department, we have invested significant resources into bpc, and we have made progress,” amato said. “over the last decade, we positively affected the percentage of women joining the undergraduate major, but we’re still not where we want to be. and we’re not where we want to be with other demographics either. “this grant provided us an opportunity to find some external resources to support these efforts, and it also gave us an opportunity to think about what new programs we could put in place to help us along that pathway.” each initiative illinois cs has begun focusing on is directly related to four bpc-related aims. the team constructing and implementing each goal includes amato, professor and associate head for academics mahesh viswanathan , associate professor colleen m. lewis and bpc program coordinator jancie harris. the aims include the following: improve practices for hiring, training, and evaluation of undergraduate course assistants (ca). hire new advising and communications staff to support the recruitment and retention of women in cs+x majors and transfer students. cs kickstart : summer bridge program designed for women. cs stars : illinois cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars)  is designed for university of illinois undergraduate students who are interested in pursuing undergraduate research in a chosen area of interest while also serving as departmental leaders to recruit women to the cs majors and empower women cs undergraduates. cs stars will conduct research with and be mentored by a cs faculty member (6-7 hours a week) and will also engage in recruiting, mentoring, and cohort building activities (3-4 hours a week). once implemented here at illinois cs, the new ca training will serve as a model for any department or unit at the university of illinois urbana-champaign – and, beyond that, any cs department. “we want to support all cas as best we can, because they are leaders in our community,” lewis said. “they have so much potential to create the inclusive and welcoming culture that we strive for constantly. we wanted to address with them what it means to be inclusive, and to identify what might occur to unintentionally create a feeling that isn’t inclusive or welcoming. this training provides additional support for them to be even more effective educators.” the first cs kickstart at illinois cs took place from august 15-19, under the tutelage of lewis and elsa l. gunter , director of undergraduate programs. thirty undergraduate students attended the four-day program designed to empower women in computer science. “these students interact with faculty before they even have their first day of class, which helps them learn early on that we are rooting for them and committed to their success,” lewis said. for every aim that illinois cs will work toward over the next two years, cic also supports interaction between participating cs departments. “another aspect of this program that will be beneficial is that we can learn from other teams involved,” viswanathan said. “there is a group of technical advisers who provide a soundboard to progress through concepts before the opportunity to deploy these ideas is upon us.” amato is proud of the progress on bpc efforts here at illinois cs, and she believes the financial support from the cic grant has been a game changer. in some instances, the very same initiatives now active after cic funding could not get off the ground previously. “that’s why the center for inclusive computing is potentially transformative, actually, because prior to this award, funding available for these types of activities was a bit rare,” amato said. “there’s no way we could be doing all of this now without this cic grant.” contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');