online master of computer science | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home academics graduate academics professional master of computer science online master of computer science information about the online mcs application information online mcs degree requirements course availability tuition & fees financial assistance get updates faqs news applications are open! apply by october 15 to join the spring  2022 cohort. apply now! complete a master’s degree at your own pace, at your own place! busy professionals can complete a degree online while they continue to meet their current life and career obligations. illinois computer science has partnered with coursera to use its massive open online course (mooc) platform to offer the mcs to students in a more flexible and affordable way than is possible on campus. students can earn the online mcs in as little as one year, or in as many as five years. the online mcs program is a non-thesis (coursework-only) degree that requires 32 credit hours of graduate coursework, completed through eight graduate-level courses each at the four credit hour level. the mcs requires that four of these eight courses are chosen from unique "core" areas of computer science, and that three of these eight courses must be at the advanced graduate level (500-level). the online mcs currently offers coursework in the core areas of artificial intelligence, databases, human-computer interaction, software engineering, scientific computing and high-performance computing. students receive lectures through coursera's massive open online course (mooc) platform, but are advised and assessed by illinois faculty and teaching assistants on the more rigorous set of assignments, projects, and exams required for university degree credit. students specifically interested in a data science focus should consider the university of illinois master of computer science in data science (mcs-ds) track . application information who may apply? applicants should hold a 4-year bachelor's degree (or equivalent ). students with a bachelor’s degree in a field other than cs are encouraged to apply, but to succeed in graduate-level cs courses, they must have prerequisite coursework or commensurate experience in object-oriented programming, data structures, algorithms, linear algebra, and statistics/probability. applicants without this can strengthen their application for admission by passing the optional data structures proficiency exam . the recommended undergraduate gpa for applicants applying to the professional master's program is a 3.2/4.0 or higher. the department of computer science does not require gre scores for any of its graduate programs. applications for the mcs do not require letters of recommendation, but they will be considered if included, especially if used to justify experience in lieu of required coursework, or other irregularities. application deadlines application process & requirements check status of application materials admission for uiuc graduates if you completed any cs or cs+x major or a cs minor at illinois with a gpa of 3.0 or better in the last two years of your undergraduate degree and a gpa of 3.2 or better in cs courses, you are guaranteed admission to our online mcs or mcs in data science (mcs-ds) programs. online mcs admissions overview online mcs degree requirements printable version . note: each online mcs course is four credit hours. breadth requirements must complete four courses (16 credit hours) each from a different area, from the following core areas with a grade of b- or higher. artificial intelligence : cs 441 applied machine learning cs 445 computational photography cs 447 natural language processing cs 598 deep learning for healthcare database and information systems : cs 410 text information systems cs 411 database systems cs 412 introduction to data mining graphics/hci : cs 418 interactive computer graphics cs 445 computational photography cs 416 data visualization cs 519 scientific visualization parallel computing : cs 484 parallel programming programming languages & software engineering : cs 421 programming languages and compilers cs 427 software engineering i scientific computing : cs 450 numerical analysis systems and networking: cs 425 distributed systems ( cloud computing concepts) cs 435 cloud networking cs 437 internet of things cs 498 cloud computing applications advanced coursework must complete three courses (12 credit hours). cs 513 theory and practice of data cleaning cs 519 scientific visualization cs 598 foundations of data curation cs 598 practical statistical learning * cs 598 advanced bayesian modeling cs 598 deep learning for healthcare cs 598 cloud computing capstone * cs 598 data mining capstone * * prerequisites apply. please see printable online mcs degree requirements document. electives stat 420 methods of applied statistics additional requirements all coursework must be taken through the coursera mooc platform. breadth coursework must have a letter grade of b- or higher. any other course taken for letter grade must have a grade of c or higher. up to 12 credit hours of previous graduate coursework that is approved by the department of computer science (including non-degree graduate courses completed within the department of computer science) may be transferred and applied to the professional mcs degree requirements. course availability (subject to change) fall semester: cs 410 text information systems cs 418 interactive computer graphics cs 425 distributed systems (cloud computing concepts) cs 427 software engineering i cs 441 applied machine learning cs 447 natural language processing cs 450 numerical analysis cs 435 cloud networking cs 519 scientific visualization cs 598 foundations of data curation cs 598 practical statistical learning spring semester: cs 411 database systems cs 412 intro to data mining cs 445 computational photography cs 484 parallel programming cs 498 cloud computing applications cs 437 internet of things cs 598 advanced bayesian modeling cs 598 deep learning for healthcare summer semester: cs 421 programming languages and compilers cs 416 data visualization stat 420 methods of applied statistics cs 513 theory & practice of data cleaning cs 598 data mining capstone cs 598 cloud computing capstone tuition & fees tuition: $670 per credit hour, for a total of $21,440 for the complete 32 credit hour degree. proctoru fees: most online mcs courses require one or more exams. exams are proctored online through the proctoru service, which will be billed directly to the student when an exam is scheduled, at $8.75 (30-min. exam), $14.75 (1-hr. exam), $21.50 (90-min. and 2-hour exam), or $30.25 (3-hour exam). other fees : some courses can require additional fees, such as the amazon web services cloud programming platform used for the cloud computing courses. financial assistance the department of computer science does not offer research or teaching assistantships to students enrolled in our online programs, including the online mcs. the online mcs program is accredited by the higher learning commission and enrolled students are eligible for financial assistance. see the office of student financial aid for further information. get updates if you are interested in receiving updates about the online mcs, please complete coursera's interest form . caesar's passion for iot helps transition his graduate course into an online, hands-on coursera specialization news | july 14, 2021 la kings add four members to hockey operations staff news | may 28, 2021 four cs faculty honored with college and campus awards for excellence in research and instruction news | april 21, 2021 eight cs faculty and students receive engineering, campus awards for excellence news | may 10, 2020 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');