david a padua
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty david a padua david a padua donald biggar willett professor emeritus in engineering (217) 333-4223 padua@illinois.edu 4227 siebel center for comp sci for more information polaris research group biography david padua has served as program committee member, program chair, or general chair to more than 70 conferences and workshops. he was the editor-in-chief of springer‐verlag’s encyclopedia of parallel computing and is currently a member of the editorial board of the communications of the acm, the journal of parallel and distributed computing, and the international journal of parallel programming. he has devoted much of his career to the study of languages, tools, and compilers for parallel computing. his phd dissertation was one of the first studies on compiler techniques for multiprocessors. he has continued this work contributing with techniques for program analysis and program transformation as well as methodologies to evaluate the effectiveness of compilers. he pioneered the study of race detection techniques for shared-memory program. padua has worked on autotuning, high level notations for parallel programming, compiler evaluation, and the efficient implementation of scripting languages. in the area of autotuning, he has worked on the development of compiler strategies, advanced notations, accurate performance models, and machine learning‐based search techniques. he led the development of the hierarchically tiled arrays notation whose goal is to facilitate the representation of parallelism and locality. his research group collaborated with ibm compiler writers in an influential evaluation of the effectiveness of vectorization. in the area of scripting languages, his research group developed techniques to improve the performance of matlab and r programs. padua has supervised the dissertations of 30 phd students. he has published more than 170 papers in programming languages, compilers, tools and parallel machine design. he received the 2015 ieee computer society harry h. goode award. in 2017, he awarded an honorary doctorate from the university of valladolid in spain. he is a fellow of the acm and the ieee. research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing programming languages / formal methods / software engineering articles in conference proceedings thiago s f x teixeira, corinne ancourt, david padua, william gropp. locus: a system and a language for program optimization. cgo 2019 zhangxiaowen gong, zhi chen, justin josef szaday, david c. wong, zehra sura, neftali watkinson, saeed maleki, david a. padua, alexander v. veidenbaum, alexandru nicolau, josep torrellas: an empirical study of the effect of source-level loop transformations on compiler stability. pacmpl 2(oopsla): 126:1-126:29 (2018) zhi chen, zhangxiaowen gong, justin josef szaday, david c. wong, david a. padua, alexandru nicolau, alexander v. veidenbaum, neftali watkinson, zehra sura, saeed maleki, josep torrellas, gerald dejong: lore: a loop repository for the evaluation of compilers. iiswc 2017: 219-228 saeed maleki, donald nguyen, andrew lenharth, maría garzarán, david padua, and keshav pingali. 2016. dsmr: a parallel algorithm for single-source shortest path problem. in proceedings of the 2016 international conference on supercomputing (ics '16). acm, new york, ny, usa, article 32, 14 pages. haichuan wang, david padua, and peng wu. 2015. vectorization of apply to reduce interpretation overhead of r. in proceedings of the 2015 acm sigplan international conference on object-oriented programming, systems, languages, and applications (oopsla 2015). acm, new york, ny, usa, 400-415. professional societies fellow. association for computing machinery. fellow. ieee computer society. research honors ieee computer society harry h. goode award (2015) golden core member.  ieee computer society (1997) courses taught - last four years cs 296 - honors course cs 420 - parallel progrmg: sci & engrg cs 426 - compiler construction cs 598 - compiler tech for parallelism cse 402 - parallel progrmg: sci & engrg ece 492 - parallel progrmg: sci & engrg related news new center to leverage high-performance computing to advance hypersonic propulsion news | october 13, 2020 generous gift from family establishes lecture series to honor illinois cs alumnus utpal banerjee news | january 16, 2020 european universities honor snir, padua for contributions to parallel computing, hpc news | january 11, 2019 illinois cs professors win nsf grant to target improvements in computer efficiency news | october 15, 2018 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');