phd program of study process | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home academics graduate academics phd program phd program of study process ph.d. requirements ph. d. time requirements & milestones ph.d. program of study process guidelines for forming ph.d. committee qualifying exam preliminary exam final exam (thesis defense) ph.d. thesis format review guidelines thesis office steps for depositing thesis office requirements view deposited ph.d. theses the ph.d. program of study is designed to allow students some flexibility to develop their curriculum in accordance with the ph.d. graduation requirements and with the expectations of their program of study committee. students are assigned three committee members during the first semester of their ph.d. program, based on their research interests. two committee members are appointed from the student's primary area of research interest and the third member from the secondary area of research interest.  effective fall 2020, the student's (prospective) advisor can serve as a committee member. students must prepare the program of study form in consultation with their program of study committee through individual meetings, a group meeting, or other forms of correspondence. students will discuss their area of interests with their committee to determine what required courses must be completed and develop strategies for meeting educational and career goals as well as the ph.d. graduation requirements. required coursework : a minimum of one course and a maximum of three courses must be identified as required courses. required courses are courses you and your committee agree that you must complete. each of these courses should be marked as pre-qual or pre-prelim . pre-qual courses must be completed prior to taking your qualifying exam. some exceptions can be made for any courses you take in the same semester as your qual. pre-prelim courses must be completed before you can schedule your preliminary examination. any changes to your required courses must be approved by all members of your program of study committee and a revised form must be completed. recommended coursework :  courses that your committee suggests and you plan to take that are intended to help you plan your studies during your research. these courses are not required and any changes to recommended courses do not require an update to your program of study form. these courses will meet the minimum credit hours required for your degree. strategy : brief explanation of the motivation for the choice of coursework. here is a " sample " of a program of study form to view. students must have all three committee members electronically approve the completed program of study form by the posted deadline announced when committee assignments are released . the program of study form may be altered by the student at any time, but a revised copy must be completed and approved by the program of study committee if any of the "required coursework" is changed. requests for a change of a program of study committee member may be submitted to viveka p. kudaligama ( kudaliga@illinois.edu ) for consideration. note: students' progress with respect to their program of study and the quality of the program of study itself are open to evaluation at the annual area meetings, where all ph.d. students are evaluated. for a student who is not making satisfactory progress in terms of qualifying examination preparation, depth of coursework, breadth of coursework, and so on, will receive a warning indicating the requirements to be completed. how to access the program of study form the program of study form is an online form available through my.cs portal. students can "save" the form and return to complete the form over multiple sessions. once all data is entered, students must click " submit " at the bottom of the form, which closes the form. prior to submitting the form, students must also confirm with their committee members that each individual committee member will approve the submitted course list.  please keep in mind this may take several iterations for all committee members to approve the proposed plan, and plan for time accordingly. once submitted, the form will be routed to the committee members for electronic approval. all committee approvals must be logged in my.cs system by the posted deadline.  (first-year phd students in the cs 591 phd/ph2 seminar may have an earlier deadline to have the approval process completed.) a few things to remember when completing this online form. when entering in a cs 598 and cs 591course , it is important that you start the course name off with the section number - rhc special topics or phd advanced seminar. we need to know what section you plan to complete when entering in a 598 or 591. this also goes for any 498 courses as well. two courses can be entered for one required course. students should use this if the committee says that either course would be acceptable. to do this, enter in the first course and click "add". then under "action" next to the course that was just added, click on the "or". this will allow you to add the other course. this means that you must complete one of these two courses in order to meet that required course requirement. when entering in " strategy ", " general comments ", or any other comments in the text boxes, avoid using apostrophe. any problems with accessing or completing the online program of study form, please contact either viveka p. kudaligama ( kudaliga@illinois.edu ) or engineering tech support ( engrit-apps@illinois.edu ). additional recommendations and information to consider ph.d. coursework requirements cs current course schedule and class websites all cs graduate level courses (graduate level courses are 400- and 500-level) graduate advising a guiding hand for grads - our academic office is available to assist illinois cs graduate students every weekday. advising contacts contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');