phd requirements | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home academics graduate academics phd program phd requirements ph.d. requirements ph. d. time requirements & milestones ph.d. program of study process guidelines for forming ph.d. committee qualifying exam preliminary exam final exam (thesis defense) ph.d. thesis format review guidelines thesis office steps for depositing thesis office requirements view deposited ph.d. theses requirements presented as a table. breakdown of credit hours total number of hours required for a ph.d.: 96 (64 with an approved m.s.) must complete a minimum of 48 credit hours of coursework (16 with an approved m.s.), of which 20 credit hours must be cs coursework (12 with an approved m.s.). must complete a minimum of 24 credit hours of 500-level coursework (16 with an approved m.s.), of which 12 credit hours must be cs 500-level coursework. courses in computer science numbered cs 500-cs 590 or cs 598 are considered advanced coursework. must complete a minimum of 32 credit hours of thesis research (cs 599). note: cs 597 (independent study) and cs 591/491 (seminar) may be applied towards bullet 2 above, but cannot be applied to bullet 3 above. independent study coursework completed at other departments will be treated similar to cs 597 hours. a maximum of 16 credit hours of independent study coursework can be applied toward the degree. advanced coursework courses in computer science numbered cs 500 - cs 590 or cs 598 are considered advanced coursework. students must complete 24 credit hours (16 with an approved m.s.) of advanced coursework. in addition, 12 hours of the advanced coursework must be computer science courses. program of study (core requirements) the program of study is designed to allow students some flexibility to develop their curriculum in accordance with the ph.d. graduation requirements outlined above and with the expectations of their advising/thesis committee. the academic office assigns students three committee members within the first month of starting the ph.d. program. students setup a time with their program of study committee to discuss their area of interests and determine what required courses must be completed and develop a strategy for meeting educational and career goals as well as the ph.d. coursework requirements. for more detailed information, visit program of study . thesis hours a minimum of 32 hours of thesis research (cs 599) is required. students may register for the advisor’s section of cs 599, either after the qualifying exam is passed or with the advisor’s approval during the semester the qualifying exam is taken. the cs 599 thesis advisor agreement form must be on file prior to enrolling for thesis hours and prior to taking the qualifying exam. additional requirements cs 591 section phd must be taken in the first semester. a maximum of 4 credit hours of cs 591 can be applied toward the ph.d. degree. the minimum program gpa is 3.0. a teaching assistantship for an entire term by the end of the 5th year, with a satisfactory performance evaluation by the department. (this is a requirement for all ph.d. students who enter the program fall 2011 or later.). the ta training seminar must also be taken prior to or concurrent with holding the teaching assistantship. ph.d. with computational science and engineering (cse) option the ph.d. with a concentration in computational science and engineering (cse) is an interdisciplinary program which focuses on computationally oriented research. all ph.d. degree requirements apply plus the following additional requirements. students must take 12 credit hours of coursework relevant to their cse research areas, selected with the approval of their advisor, from one or more departments outside computer science. cse 500-level courses may be used to satisfy the advanced coursework (500-level) requirement. the ph.d. thesis must address some aspect of cse. the doctoral committee should include a faculty member from outside computer science whose interests are relevant to the student's research. ph.d. requirements table requirements entering with approved m.s. degree entering with b.s. degree credit hours: hours hours total credit for the degree 64 96 thesis research – cs 599 (minimum applied toward degree) 32 32 course work 16 48 500-level course work 16 (12 must be cs courses) 24 (12 must be cs courses) 400- or 500-level course work 16 24 additional graduate-level course work or thesis research credit (subject to other requirements and conditions below) 16 16 other requirements and conditions (may overlap):* minimum hours of cs course work 12 20 cs 597 (independent study) and cs 591 (seminar) may not be applied to the 500-level course work requirement. cs 591 section phd must be taken in the first semester. a maximum of 4 credit hours of cs 591 can be applied toward the ph.d. degree. the minimum program gpa is 3.0. a teaching assistantship for an entire term, with a satisfactory performance evaluation by the department, is required by the end of the 5th year. ph.d. exam and dissertation requirements: qualifying exam preliminary exam final exam or dissertation defense dissertation deposit [note: international students must show demonstration of english proficiency (equivalent to that necessary to be a ta - see financial aid) before taking the qualifying exam.] graduate advising a guiding hand for grads - our academic office is available to assist illinois cs graduate students every weekday. advising contacts contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');