postdoctoral positions | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} #hero::before { background-image: url(//ws.engr.illinois.edu/sitemanager/viewphoto.aspx?id=16099&s=1600) !important; } skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about open positions postdoctoral positions postdoctoral opportunities in illinois computer science illinois future faculty fellows get matched with an illinois computer science faculty mentor to help prepare for an academic career in research and teaching!  join our thriving community of creative, passionate, and innovative scholars for opportunities for career development, networking, and research collaborations. apply below - be sure to include the names of 1-5 department faculty who you are interested in working with in your cover letter. other postdoctoral opportunities at illinois beckman postdoctoral fellows program at illinois the beckman institute offers three different postdoctoral fellow programs that support outstanding scientists and offer a unique opportunity for selected scholars to engage in a three-year fellowship focused on interdisciplinary research at the beckman institute. illinois future faculty fellows - postdoctoral research associate department of computer science university of illinois at urbana-champaign learn more about illinois computer science apply here! the department of computer science (cs) at the university of illinois at urbana-champaign invites applications for the “future faculty” program. the future faculty program is a selective program offering two-year postdoctoral positions whose goal is to mentor and prepare outstanding candidates for an academic career in research and teaching. candidates will be paired with a faculty mentor who will serve as their research supervisor. in addition, interested candidates will have the opportunity to teach up to one course per semester with strong mentorship and logistic support that guides candidates in good pedagogical practices. individuals in the program will be mentored through the faculty job search process and will have the opportunity to be considered for a faculty position at illinois. candidates in all areas of computer science are encouraged to apply. applicants for this position are expected to have a phd or equivalent degree in computer science or a closely related field.  abd (all but degree) applicants may apply and confirmation of your completed degree requirements must be provided on or before the start date. the university of illinois has one of the strongest cs departments in the country, with approximately 1,800 undergraduate majors and over 1,200 graduate students across seventeen different degree programs. in addition to our flagship undergraduate program in the grainger college of engineering , which includes a diverse class of over 30% women in our freshman class, our innovative cs + x programs incorporate a strong grounding in cs with technical or professional training in the arts and sciences across a dozen different disciplines. we seek applicants that will contribute to the diverse and vibrant atmosphere in the department. successful applicants will join the department’s thriving community of creative, passionate, and innovative teaching and research faculty who contribute to high-quality instruction and research. our graduate program is ranked one of the top five in the country by us news & world report . we are also one of the leading teaching units on campus, offering computing education to students in every discipline. the university of illinois is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. minorities, women, veterans and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply. for more information, visit http://go.illinois.edu/eeo . the start date for these positions is flexible. application review will begin immediately. in order to ensure full consideration for a fall 2021 start date, applications must be received by monday, february 1, 2021. applicants may be interviewed before the closing dates; however, no hiring decision will be made until after that date. salary will be commensurate with qualifications. applications should be submitted by visiting https://my.cs.illinois.edu/submit/go.asp?id=1502 and uploading a cover letter, curriculum vitae, teaching statement, research statement, and names and contact information for three references. applicants should indicate what their ultimate career goals within the content of their cover letter, as well as the illinois faculty with whom they are interested in working. applicants may also submit supporting material relevant to evaluating their teaching abilities. for inquiry, please call 217-300-3309 or hr@cs.illinois.edu . the university of illinois conducts criminal background checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of a contingent offer. contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');