preliminary exam | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home academics graduate academics phd program preliminary exam ph.d. requirements ph. d. time requirements & milestones ph.d. program of study process guidelines for forming ph.d. committee qualifying exam preliminary exam final exam (thesis defense) ph.d. thesis format review guidelines thesis office steps for depositing thesis office requirements view deposited ph.d. theses in the semester that qualifying exam is passed, students are expected to form a ph.d. committee. in addition, students should have a prelim committee in place prior to writing their proposal and scheduling the prelim exam. to learn more about the guidelines and process of forming a ph.d. committee, visit the ph.d. committee section . purpose writing a good proposal is an important part of being a successful researcher. the thesis proposal (preliminary exam) is viewed as an important milestone that helps students develop this skill. the ph.d. student writes a proposal that is submitted to the ph.d. committee prior to the exam. the thesis proposal presentation gives the ph.d. committee a formal opportunity to evaluate the research progress and goals of the student. thus, the two main purposes of the preliminary exam are to develop proposal writing skills and to obtain feedback on the research plan from the ph.d. committee. exam policies the thesis proposal presentation (preliminary exam) should be held within a year or two of passing the qualifying exam. it may be taken no later than five semesters after passing the qualifying exam. effective fall 2012 term, all students must now be registered for the term in which the prelim exam occurs. all ph.d. candidates whose native language is not english, regardless of us citizenship, must pass the tse(passing score is 50), the speak(passing score is 50), the toefl ibt-speaking subsection(passing scores is 24), the ielts-speaking subsection(passing score is 8), or the epi exam (passing score is 5) administered by the university, prior to attempting the preliminary exam. for students who have entered the program fall 2011 and foward must complete this requirement before attempting the qualifying exam. the thesis proposal must be submitted to the ph.d. committee at least three weeks prior to the exam . this gives the committee sufficient time to carefully read the proposal and evaluate the ideas. failure to submit the proposal on time may result in having to reschedule the exam. the ph.d. committee for the exam must satisfy the five criteria given in the ph.d. committee section . the proposed committee and exam date must be submitted to the academic office at least 3 weeks prior to the exam by completing the prelim-final exam form . the graduate college requires this time to approve the committee and officially appoint it. effective fall 2012, the graduate college will require an original "wet" signatures of the "chair", "co-chair" and "department head" on the prelim exam result form. the committee and format of the exam must also satisfy the exam policies defined by the graduate college . contact maggie metzger chappell (or at 333-4428) in the academic office with any questions. guidance on how to write the proposal a balance must be struck between satisfying severe space limitations and providing the most critical details. the proposal is not a binding agreement between the student and the ph.d. committee on the precise tasks that must be accomplished. through frequent interactions with ph.d. committee members, the student can adapt the specific thesis accomplishments as necessary. the thesis proposal should be between 15 and 25 pages (when single-spaced format) . bibliographic references are not included in this page count (having more references is encouraged) . there are no explicit page limits or formatting requirements. if proposals are much shorter or longer than the norm, the ph.d. committee will question the reasons for this. if the proposal is much too long, the committee may recommend rescheduling the exam after the proposal is rewritten. three main criteria are usually applied in evaluating a proposal (the first two are similar to the national science foundation's guidelines for evaluating research proposals) . intellectual merit: what is the importance of the activity to advancing knowledge or understanding? expected impact: what impact can be expected in terms of particular research communities and on society in general? feasibility: how likely are the stated goals to be achieved by the candidate? based on these criteria, the thesis proposal should contain: an overview of the state of the art, which helps to show that the candidate has a good grasp of the relevant research fields. a brief summary of research results obtained so far by the candidate. this includes citing prior publications and current submissions produced by the student. a clear description of the remaining problems and goals. some details of the proposed technical approach. clear arguments as to why the work is interesting in terms of intellectual merit and expected impact. an explanation of how the goals can be accomplished within the expected amount of time. the thesis proposal should not be a preliminary draft of the thesis. particular chapters or parts of the thesis. a survey of the candidate's research field. an existing publication or technical report. graduate advising a guiding hand for grads - our academic office is available to assist illinois cs graduate students every weekday. advising contacts contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');