qualifying exam | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home academics graduate academics phd program qualifying exam ph.d. requirements ph. d. time requirements & milestones ph.d. program of study process guidelines for forming ph.d. committee qualifying exam preliminary exam final exam (thesis defense) ph.d. thesis format review guidelines thesis office steps for depositing thesis office requirements view deposited ph.d. theses purpose the purpose of the ph.d. qualifying exam is for students to convince the faculty that they should be considered a ph.d. candidate. faculty evaluate whether the student has the knowledge, experience, perspective, and determination to complete the ph.d. program. in addition, faculty will evaluate the student's presentation and communication skills to ensure a mastery of english sufficient to teach in a u.s. institution can be achieved by the end of the program. researchers in various areas may assess these qualities differently; therefore, the format and content of the exam vary dramatically depending on the research area. deadline students must attempt the qualifying exam no later than the fourth semester. students must have completed all the core coursework requirements (i.e. the required courses identified on the program of study form) and must have a ph.d. advisor by the time of the qualifying exam. an advisor agreement form must be on file with the academic office. in addition, students whose native language is not english, regardless of citizenship, must pass the epi (passing score is 5+), the toefl ibt-speaking subsection (passing score is 24+), or the ielts-speaking subsection (passing score is 8+) prior to attempting the qualifying exam. it is highly recommended that students complete this requirement within their first year of the ph.d. program to avoid any surprises at the time of the qualifying exam. qualifying exams are held during a four-week period, starting on the monday closest to the third week of each fall and spring semester. for any questions regarding the qualifying exam process, please email maggie metzger chappell or call her at 333-3527. qualifying exam statements in the semester prior to the qualifying exam , students will be asked to submit a "qual statement" ( ms word or pdf (must save first, then edit) version). this outline of research interests is forwarded to the appropriate research area committee. the area committee appoints three faculty members whose research matches the stated interests as the examining committee. however, in general, the committee will not include the thesis advisor. in many cases, this committee will select research papers to be studied by the candidate for the exam. after the qualifying exam committees are announced, students are responsible for contacting their committee to schedule the exam, secure space for the exam, confirm the time and location to all committee members, and prepare necessary materials for the exam. students must also inform maggie metzger chappell of their exam schedule and location. the results of the qualifying exam may be pass, fail, or conditional pass (conditions are usually requirements to take a course or two) . qual results are reported to the academic office on an area-by-area basis, so it may take a week or more for a student to learn the results. failed qualifying exam a student who fails the qualifying exam may, at the discretion of the examining committee, be allowed one more attempt to pass it in the semester immediately following the first attempt. if the qualifying exam is not passed, the student may request to switch to the m.s. program, assuming it can be completed expediently and no previous m.s. was completed elsewhere in computer science (graduate college does not confer duplicate m.s. degrees) . all other requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis by the graduate study committee. qualifying exam committee policy the phd. qualifying exam committee should be composed of: cs faculty and cs affiliate faculty only; and at least two cs tenure-track faculty. a second attempt at the qual exam shall have at least one member from the previous qual committee who must be a cs faculty. exceptions to qual committee formation may be requested in exceptional cases by contacting the academic office for approval. qualifying exam research area guidelines algorithms and theory architecture, compilers and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal systems and software engineering scientific computing security & privacy systems and networking guidance on how to prepare the format and content of the qualifying exam varies dramatically depending on the area. for most areas, review the guidelines above. to prepare for the qualifying exam, it is highly recommended that students talk with their advisor, faculty in the area, and students who have taken the particular exam before. this information is particularly helpful for a student who has research interests that span multiple areas. occasionally, more than one exam might be appropriate. the student should consult with his/her thesis advisor as to which exam is best for the planned research. graduate advising a guiding hand for grads - our academic office is available to assist illinois cs graduate students every weekday. advising contacts contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');