rakesh kumar
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty rakesh kumar rakesh kumar professor, electrical and computer engineering (217) 333-5955 rakeshk@illinois.edu 208 coordinated science lab for more information rakesh kumar's home page education university of california, san diego. ph.d in computer engineering. department of computer
science & engineering. biography rakesh kumar is a professor in the electrical and computer engineering department at the university of illinois at urbana champaign with research and teaching interests in computer architecture. his research has been recognized through one isca influential paper award, one 10 year retrospective most influential paper (mip) award (aspdac), several best paper awards and best paper award nominations (ieee micro top picks, asplos, hpca, cases, selse, ieee cal), aro young investigator award, and ucsd cse best dissertation award. his teaching and advising have been recognized through stanley h pierce faculty award and ronald w pratt faculty outstanding teaching award. he previously served as a co-founder and chief architect at hyperion core, inc, a microprocessor chip startup. rakesh has a bs from iit kharagpur and a phd from university of california at san diego. academic positions university of illinois, urbana-champaign, department of electrical and computer engineering. professor. university of illinois, urbana-champaign, department of electrical and computer engineering. associate professor. university of illinois, urbana-champaign, department of electrical and computer engineering. assistant professor. research statement our work spans all layers of the computing stack - circuits, architectures, compilers, systems, and applications. a typical member of my research  group is creative, hardworking, motivated, and ambitious. he/she has strong programming skills, with a background in circuits, cad, or computer architecture. he/she is open to learning new skills and considers hard problems as particularly interesting. students who do not fit the above profile are, in general, not good fits. undergraduate research opportunities i am always looking for motivated and exceptional undergraduate students to join my group. email rakeshk@illinois.edu if you want to do research in computer architecture. see our research/publications pages (http://passat.crhc.uiuc.edu) for a sampling of our research. please attach your cv as well. research interests fault tolerance, reliability low power and complexity-effective designs cad/architecture interactions computer architecture research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing teaching honors stanley h pierce faculty award. 2018. ronald w. pratt faculty outstanding teaching award. 2016. list of teachers ranked as excellent. spring 2013. spring 2015. fall 2016, fall 2018, ..... research honors ieee micro top picks - honorable mention. 2021. 2020 tcca/sigarch isca influential paper award. 10 year retrospective most influential paper (mip). aspdac. 2020. qualcomm innovation fellowship.  2019. ieee micro top picks award. 2018. (recognizes the 12 best papers published in 2017 in computer architecture conferences) best paper award. 22nd acm international conference on architectural support for programming languages and operating systems. 2017. best paper. selse. the 12th workshop on silicon errors in logic – system effects. 2016. best of ieee computer architecture letters. 2013. aro young investigator award, 2012 best paper award nomination. the 18th international symposium on high performance computer architecture (hpca), 2012. best paper award. international conference on compilers, architectures, and synthesis of embedded systems (cases). 2011. uc san diego cse dissertation award, 2007. nominated for acm distinguished dissertation award. ibm phd fellowship, 2005-2006 jagdish bose national science talent search (jbnsts) scholarship, 1997-2001 public service honors oped "india's science and technology funding: time for a rethink?" selected for nature india annual volume 2019, which includes "the best research highlights, news, features, commentaries and opinion pieces published through the year." 2020. other honors engineering council outstanding advising award (2018) engineering council outstanding advising award (2017) engineering council outstanding advising award (2016.) engineering council outstanding advising award (2013) courses taught - last four years cse 521 - computer architecture ece 411 - computer organization & design ece 445 - senior design project lab ece 511 - computer architecture related news load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');