tarek abdelzaher
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty tarek abdelzaher tarek abdelzaher sohaib and sara abbasi professor and willett faculty scholar (217) 265-6793 zaher@illinois.edu 4126 siebel center for comp sci for more information tarek f. abdelzaher's home page education ph. d., computer science and engineering, university of michigan, ann arbor, mi, august 1999. biography tarek abdelzaher received his ph.d. in computer science from the university of michigan in 1999. he is currently a professor and willett faculty scholar at the department of computer science, the university of illinois at urbana champaign. he has authored/coauthored more than 300 refereed publications in real-time computing, cps/iot, distributed systems, intelligent networked sensing, machine learning, and control. he served as editor-in-chief of the journal of real-time systems for 20 years, and as associate editor of the ieee transactions on mobile computing, ieee transactions on parallel and distributed systems, ieee embedded systems letters, the acm transaction on sensor networks, acm transactions on internet technology, acm transactions on internet of things, and the ad hoc networks journal. he chaired (as program or general chair) several conferences in his area including rtas, rtss, ipsn, sensys, dcoss, icdcs, infocom, and icac. abdelzaher's research interests lie broadly in understanding and influencing performance and temporal properties of networked embedded, social, and software systems in the face of increasing complexity, distribution, and degree of interaction with an external physical environment. tarek abdelzaher is a recipient of the ieee outstanding technical achievement and leadership award in real-time systems (2012), the xerox award for faculty research (2011), as well as several best paper awards. he is a senior member of ieee and a fellow of acm. research interests social sensing and social media analysis machine learning for iot/cps internet of things (iot) cyber-physical systems (cps) sensor networks and crowdsensing intelligent real-time systems research areas systems and networking selected articles in journals (*w) dong wang, qing cao, tarek abdelzaher, bodhi priyantha, jie liu, feng zhao, "energy-optimal batching periods for asynchronous multistage data processing on sensor nodes: foundations and an mplatform case study," journal of real-time systems, volume 48 issue 2, march 2012. (**) mani srivastava, tarek abdelzaher, boleslaw k. szymanski, "human-centric sensing," philosophical transactions of the royal society, special issue on wireless sensor networks, vol. 370, no. 1958, pp. 176-197, january 2012. (*w) jin heo, praveen jayachandran, insik shin, dong wang, tarek abdelzaher, xue liu, "optituner: on performance composition and server farm energy minimization application," ieee transactions on parallel and distributed systems, vol. 22, no. 11, november 2011. (*) heechul yun, po-liang wu, anshu arya, tarek abdelzaher, cheolgi kim, and lui sha, "system-wide energy optimization for multiple dvs components and real-time tasks," journal of real-time systems, volume 47, number 5, september 2011. (**) k.c. ting, tarek abdelzaher, andrew alleyne, and luis rodriguez, "information technology empowered agriculture: challenges and opportunities," the bridge - a publication of the national academy of engineering, vol. 41, no. 3, september 2011. (*w) wenbo he, xue liu, hoang nguyen, klara nahrstedt, tarek abdelzaher, "pda: privacy-preserving data aggregation for information collection," acm transactions on sensor networks, vol. 8, no. 1, august 2011. (**) liu, x., abdelzaher, t., "non-utilization bounds and feasible regions for arbitrary fixed-priority policies," acm transactions on embedded systems, vol. 10, no. 3, april 2011. (*w) praveen jayachandran and tarek abdelzaher, “reduction-based schedulability analysis of distributed systems with cycles in the task graph,” journal of real-time systems, vol. 46, no. 1, september 2010. articles in conference proceedings (**w) hossein ahmadi, tarek abdelzaher, robin kravets, "adaptive multi-metric routing in distressed mobile sensing networks," ieee international conference on sensor networks, ubiquitous, and trustworthy computing (ieee sutc), newport beach, ca, june, 2010. (invited) (**w) nam pham, tarek abdelzaher, suman nath, "on bounding data stream privacy in distributed cyber-physical systems," ieee international conference on sensor networks, ubiquitous, and trustworthy computing (ieee sutc), newport beach, ca, june, 2010. (invited) (*w) hossein ahmadi, tarek abdelzaher, indranil gupta, "congestion control for spatio-temporal data in cyber-physical systems," in proc. 1st international conference on cyber-physical systems (iccps), stockholm, sweden, april, 2010. (28.5%) (*w) mohammad maifi hasan khan, hieu k. le, michael lemay, parya moinzadeh, lili wang, yong yang, dong k. noh, tarek abdelzaher, carl a. gunter, jiawei han, xin jin, "diagnostic powertracing for sensor node failure analysis," ipsn, stockholm, sweden, april, 2010. (18%) (*w) qing cao, dong wang, tarek abdelzaher, bodhi priyantha, jie liu, feng zhao, "energy-optimal batching periods for asynchronous multistage data processing on sensor nodes: foundations and an mplatform case study," ieee rtas, stockholm, sweden, april, 2010. (22%) best paper award. (*w) nathanael thompson, samual nelson, mehedi bakht, tarek abdelzaher, robin kravets, "retiring replicants: congestion control for intermittently-connected networks," ieee infocom, san diego, ca, march 2010. (17.5%) (*w) yong yang, lu su, yan gao, tarek abdelzaher, "solarcode: utilizing erasure codes for reliable data delivery in solar-powered wireless sensor networks," ieee infocom  (miniconference), san diego, ca, march 2010. (24.3%) (*w) nam pham, raghu ganti, md. yusuf uddin, suman nath, tarek abdelzaher, "privacy-preserving reconstruction of multidimensional data maps in vehicular participatory sensing," european conference on wireless sensor networks (ewsn), coimbra, portugal, february, 2010. (19%) research honors distinguished paper award, imwut vol. 2 (2019) top-3 student paper award, fusion (2019) best paper award, ieee/acm international conference on cyber-physical systems (2017) best paper award, international conference on mobile ad hoc and sensor systems (2016) best paper award, international conference on autonomic computing (2015) best paper award, ieee sensor, mesh and ad hoc communications and networks (2012) ieee technical committee on real-time systems outstanding achievement and leadership award (2012) xerox award for faculty research (2011) willett faculty scholar (2010) best paper award, euromicro conference on real-time systems (2009) best paper award, international conference on mobile ad-hoc and sensor systems (2008) best paper award, european conference on real-time systems (2007) best student paper award, ieee real-time systems symposium (2003) nsf career award (2001) distinguished achievement award in computer science and engineering, university of michigan (1999) courses taught - last four years cs 424 - real-time systems cs 598 - social sensing related news new method of us army accelerates ai decision-making news | september 9, 2021 abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging news | september 8, 2021 army's compressive offloading method could speed up battlefield decision-making news | september 3, 2021 purdue researchers receive amazon research award for streaming video analytics method on iot devices news | june 9, 2021 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');