graduate student annual evaluation process | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home academics graduate academics graduate forms & advising resources graduate student annual evaluation process all graduate students in the research-based programs, including students planning to graduate in the spring or summer semester of the current academic year, must complete the annual self-evaluation. the time period for the evaluation process will be communicated via e-mail from the cs graduate academic office. once complete, the faculty advisor (or other designee) and the faculty chair of the research area, among others, will review the progress described in the form. students will receive a notification when the department review is complete and will be able to read any feedback provided in regards to their progress. failure to complete the evaluation form will result in a departmental rating of unsatisfactory progress. remember that continuation of graduate assistantships is contingent upon making satisfactory progress in the program. self-evaluation directions to access the self-evaluation form, login to http://my.cs.illinois.edu and select the link for the self evaluation form under the cs grad student toolbox. to review a prior evaluation, select the pull-down menu in the upper left corner of the form. you must save any new information entered into the current form before reviewing prior evaluations otherwise the new information will be lost. cv link : please upload your latest cv or resume in pdf or word format. student's advisors the auto-populated list should contain the name of your research advisor. ph.d. students will also see the members of their program of study committee. if the research advisor listed is incorrect or if you have submitted the thesis advisor form but the name of the advisor is not listed, please contact the assistant director to make the corrections. if you have not yet secured a research advisor, an evaluation advisor will be assigned to perform the review. ph.d. milestone checklist (only for phd students): this section is auto-populated. please check that the information is correct. program of study complete means that you have completed all the required courses from your program of study form. progress: rate your own progress toward graduation since the last evaluation. write a few sentences explaining the rating. (proposed) thesis title: enter the proposed title of your thesis if known. otherwise, enter the topic of your research. anticipated graduation term: self explanatory. accomplishments : this section was revised in spring 2019. it is not necessary to edit information submitted in the prior annual evaluations. you must complete all the fields in order for a new accomplishment to be added to the form. publications: these can be research articles, book chapters, case studies, demonstrations, grad symposia, posters, short papers, technical reports, workshops, or other articles you have published since the last evaluation. please enter one publication per line indicating the tier (e.g. top-tier), your author position (e.g. primary author), the type of publication, term of the publication, and the full citation (e.g., including authors, title, venue, year, and page numbers). click "add publication" for each publication. when selecting the tier for a publication, please note that a top-tier venue is considered to be a competitive peer-reviewed venue (e.g., an acm conference, acm journal, ieee journal, or a venue with an a or a* ranking in the core rankings or a venue that fits those ranking descriptions). invited talks: please enter one talk per line with the title, semester, and venue. please do not include talks that are associated with a typical conference publication or talks that were delivered internally in the department (e.g., talks in courses, research groups, or prelims). awards: list all scholarships, fellowships, and other awards or honors received since the prior evaluation or that are continuing since then. teaching assistantships and research assistanships held since the last evaluation : update the ta and ra sections based on the assistantships you held since the last evaluation. internships : please list your internship experiences, one per line for the past year. professional career choices : please rank up to three choices in order of preference for the professional careers you might want to pursue upon graduation. description of progress since last evaluation : summarize your research progress since the last evaluation. students without a research advisor should include the steps taken to find an advisor and research topic. graduating students should include their plans after graduation. all students should report if they have switched research areas (or switched between significantly different research topics) and the reason for the change. select "save evaluation" to leave and re-enter the form later. when the form is ready for faculty review, select "complete & submit evaluation". all questions should be directed to the director or the assistant director of graduate programs. graduate academic office contact information department of computer science graduate academic office university of illinois 201 north goodwin, 1210 siebel center urbana, il 61801 campus mail code: mc-258 phone: (217) 333-4428 fax: (217) 244-6073 email: academic@cs.illinois.edu office hours monday – friday morning: 8:00 am to 11:45 am afternoon: 1:00 pm to 4:45 pm walk-in advising hours start at 10:00 am list of graduate advising contacts and virtual advising queue contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');