guidelines for forming ph.d. committee | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home academics graduate academics phd program guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. requirements ph. d. time requirements & milestones ph.d. program of study process guidelines for forming ph.d. committee qualifying exam preliminary exam final exam (thesis defense) ph.d. thesis format review guidelines thesis office steps for depositing thesis office requirements view deposited ph.d. theses purpose the role of ph.d. committees is to provide frequent feedback and advice to the ph.d. candidate. the committee shares the responsibility of guiding the student's research to successful completion. students should not view the committee as obstacles, but rather as additional mentors and possible promoters of their thesis research. when applying for jobs, committee members are often the first choice for seeking recommendation letters. it is expected that the ph.d. advisor work closely with the student in determining the most appropriate committee members. timeframe for establishing committees in the semester that the qualifying exam is passed, the student is expected to form a ph.d. committee. committee members may easily be added or removed during the time from the qualifying exam to the final exam (thesis defense). committee members the ph.d. committee must satisfy the requirements imposed by the graduate college and the department of computer science: there must be at least four voting members (normally, all are designated as such). at least three and no less than half of the voting members must be members of the illinois graduate faculty. at least two of the voting members must be tenured faculty from the university of illinois. at least three members must be members of the extended faculty in the department of computer science (dcs) at illinois with graduate advising privileges in the dcs. members who satisfy this criteria include the regular faculty, the teaching faculty with graduate advising privileges in the dcs, and people with non-visiting (assistant/associate/full) professor appointments in the dcs that carry one or more of the following modifiers - adjunct, affiliate, research or emeritus). two of these three members must be full-time (non-affiliate) members in the dcs. at least one member must be from outside of the university of illinois urbana-champaign (outside member is required only for students who have passed the qualifying exam in spring 2006 or later, however, it is highly recommended for all students). the outside member cannot have been a student of the current thesis advisor or any other university of illinois committee member nor have been a university of illinois student within the last five years. the outside committee member must have independent publications that occurred after earning their ph.d. in addition, if the outside member is a post-doc, he/she can serve as a non-voting member only. if there are more than 4 members on a committee, the majority vote needs to favor the cs department faculty. if you are unsure, please contact maggie metzger chappell at mmetz2@illinois.edu . note: the outside member must have a ph.d. and does not need to be a university faculty member. for example, this member could belong to an industrial or government research lab. if necessary, teleconferencing technology may be used for the prelim exam. for approval of the outside member, the department of computer science and the graduate college require their cv and a brief statement of why they were chosen. the five requirements above are also imposed on the ph.d. committee for the final exam (although the committees may be different) . advice on how to form the committee it is good for students to involve additional researchers in their efforts as early as possible. remember, students are not locked into particular committee choices until their preliminary exam. in some sense, the ph.d. committee is just a formal mechanism to stimulate interaction between faculty and students. it is generally recommended that a student have at least one committee member who is not a specialist in the general area of research pursued in the thesis. the ability to explain and justify research to outsiders is crucial to the success of a researcher. it is fairly common to have more committee members than the minimum of four. this helps to further enhance the quality and visibility of the work. furthermore, it may be easier to satisfy the five requirements on ph.d. committees by having more members. graduate advising a guiding hand for grads - our academic office is available to assist illinois cs graduate students every weekday. advising contacts contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');