heng ji
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty heng ji heng ji professor (217) 244-0862 hengji@illinois.edu 3318 siebel center for comp sci for more information heng ji's website biography heng ji is a professor at computer science department of university of illinois at urbana-champaign. she received her b.a. and m. a. in computational linguistics from tsinghua university, and her m.s. and ph.d. in computer science from new york university. her research interests focus on natural language processing, especially on information extraction and knowledge base population. she is selected as "young scientist" and a member of the global future council on the future of computing by the world economic forum in 2016 and 2017. the awards she received include "ai's 10 to watch" award by ieee intelligent systems in 2013, nsf career award in 2009, paclic2012 best paper runner-up, "best of icdm2013" paper award, "best of sdm2013" paper award, acl2018 best demo paper nomination, google research award in 2009 and 2014, ibm watson faculty award in 2012 and 2014 and bosch research award in 2014-2018.  she has coordinated the nist tac knowledge base population task since 2010. she is the associate editor for ieee/acm transaction on audio, speech, and language processing. she has served as the program committee co-chair of naacl-hlt2018, nlp-nabd2018, nlpcc2015, csckg2016 and ccl2019, and senior area chair for many conferences. she has led several multi-institute research efforts including darpa deft tinker bell team of seven universities and darpa kairos resin team of six universities. she is the task leader of the u.s. arl projects on information fusion and knowledge networks construction between 2009-2019.  she is invited by the secretary of the air force and afrl to join air force data analytics expert panel to inform the air force strategy 2030. research interests natural language processing and its connections with data mining, social science and vision. research areas artificial intelligence data and information systems articles in conference proceedings yi r. fung, christopher thomas, revanth gangi reddy, sandeep polisetty, heng ji, shih-fu chang, kathleen mckeown, mohit bansal and avi sil. 2021. "infosurgeon: cross-media fine-grained information consistency checking for fake news detection." proc. the joint conference of the 59th annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics and the 11th international joint conference on natural language processing (acl-ijcnlp 2021). manling li, alireza zareian, qi zeng, spencer whitehead, di lu, heng ji, and shih-fu chang."cross-media structured common space for multimedia event extraction." in: proc. the 58th annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics (acl2020). 2020. manling li, qi zeng, ying lin, kyunghyun cho, heng ji, jonathan may, nathanael chambers, and clare voss. "connecting the dots: event graph schema induction with path language modeling." in: proc. the 2020 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing (emnlp2020). 2020. honors ai's 10 to watch, ieee intelligent systems (2013) nsf career award (2009) courses taught - last four years cs 546 - adv topics in nlp cs 598 - info extr and knowledge acq cs 598 - knowledge-driven nat lang gen related news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging news | september 8, 2021 manling li produces award-winning event schema research with adviser and mentor heng ji news | june 2, 2021 several illinois cs research projects result in best paper awards news | march 15, 2021 ji's research receives funding to alter media consumption and help cut through disinformation news | february 11, 2021 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');