honors | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home academics undergraduate academics honors there are many opportunities for undergraduate students within the department of computer science to be recognized for their exceptional work. awards and scholarships are presented each year during the department's spring awards banquet. the james scholar program is open to qualified students within the college of engineering and the college of liberal arts and sciences. each of the colleges recognizes its top graduates during graduation ceremonies. college of engineering honors james scholar program in engineering the gifted undergraduate student who is seeking the challenge of advanced and unusual academic opportunities and the maximum freedom in course selection will find such opportunity in the james scholar program in engineering . in addition to the various honors sections, courses, and special educational opportunities made available by the various departments of the college, the program administers several engineering honors courses. these courses are designed to bring together james scholars from throughout the college to study various interdisciplinary subjects. the james scholar program is voluntary and therefore enrolls superior students who are actively seeking unusual academic challenges. it strives to interact with each student on an individual basis; its foundation lies in the student's interest and academic goals. the college of engineering requires its james scholars to devise an "honors contract" in consultation with the honors advisor. for cs, honors advising, like other academic advising, is handled in the academic office. contact undergrad@cs.illinois.edu for honors advising. for more information about the james scholar program in engineering, including eligibility criteria, see the website . graduating with honors in engineering honors awarded at graduation to superior students are designated on the diploma as honors, high honors, or highest honors. eligibility honors students with a cumulative university of illinois grade point average of at least 3.5. high honors students with a cumulative university of illinois grade point average of 3.8. highest honors may be awarded to any student upon recommendation of the department. the criteria used in selecting individuals for highest honors recognition include a gpa of at least 3.95 or a combination of a gpa of at least 3.8 plus one or more of the following: 1) evidence of a broad range of supplementary activities of an academic and/or professional nature, 2) a substantial body of advanced cs coursework beyond that required for the degree (individual study, graduate-level work, senior thesis), 3) a substantial body of advanced coursework outside of cs, e.g. a second major or a minor that does not overlap significantly with degree requirements (e.g. not the math minor). college of liberal arts and sciences honors james scholar program in las within the college of liberal arts and sciences (las) , the james scholar honors program encourages academically gifted students to fully develop their intellectual abilities and achieve the college's highest academic recognition. scholars are charged with the responsibility of seeking sustained intellectual achievement as undergraduates by achieving and annually maintaining james scholar certification. only the top 15 percent of the entering freshman are invited to participate in the las's james scholar honors program. these incoming students are notified of their admission with a letter from the dean of the college. continuing or transfer students with a 3.5 (a=4.0) cumulative grade point average may nominate themselves as james scholars. james scholars must meet the requirements each academic year to remain in good standing to continue receiving the program's benefits. to be certified as a james scholar in las each year, scholars must fulfill the following criteria: complete at least two honors courses (one per semester) or honors credit agreements during the academic year and earn a 3.5 cumulative grade point average. graduating with distinction in las criteria for graduation with distinction, high destinction and highest destinction in the las cs programs can be found under the degree requirements listing for each major in the university's academic catalog, as follows: mathematics & computer science statistics & computer science programs not listed above have yet to establish criteria. contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');