ican faqs | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} #hero::before { background-image: url(//ws.engr.illinois.edu/sitemanager/viewphoto.aspx?id=17189&s=1600) !important; } skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home admissions graduate admissions faqs ican faqs general questions 1) what is ican? the illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) is a one-year program for non-computer science college graduates who are interested in a high-tech computing career or pursuing a graduate degree in computer science. specifically designed coursework in computing fundamentals is coupled with individualized attention from world-class faculty, plus academic and career mentoring. 2) how long is the ican program? the ican program is a one-year (fall, spring, summer) program that results in a computing fundamentals certificate. 3) is ican a full-time or part-time program? ican is a full-time program. it is expected that students will spend around 10 hours in class and 20 hours outside of class on their coursework. 4) do i need to know how to code in order to apply to the ican program? a coding background is not needed in order to apply. 5) how much math is required for the ican program? the ican program assumes a knowledge of college algebra. any additional math that is required will be taught in the program. 6) i do not have a background in computer science. can i apply? yes. our program assumes that students have no knowledge of computer science and is designed to prepare such students for a career in industry or for graduate studies in computer science. 7) i do not have a bachelor's degree. can i apply? you must have at least completed a bachelor's degree, in something other than computer science, in order to apply to the ican program. 8) i am very interested in the ican program, but i am not sure if the program is right for me. what should i do next? please contact us at ican@cs.illinois.edu . we would love to talk to you to understand your goals and help you determine whether ican is the right program for you. program structure 9) what are the start and end dates? the ican program begins in the fall semester and runs for the entire academic year. please click here for the current academic calendar. 10) how many credits are in the ican program? the ican program consists of 20 credits. these credits are spread over eight courses. students take three courses in the fall and spring semesters and two courses in the summer. 11) what courses are offered in the ican program? the ican program consists of eight courses. students will enroll in the following courses each semester. fall: fundamentals of computer science i (3 credits), fundamentals of computing mathematics (3 credits), and excursions in computing i (1 credit) spring:  fundamentals of computer science ii (3 credits), fundamentals of data structures and algorithms (3 credits), and excursions in computing ii (1 credit) summer: computing fundamentals capstone (3 credits) and 400-level cs elective (3-4 credits) 12) are courses online or on campus? for the 2021-2022 academic year, the ican program will be offered in-person (depending on covid-19 restrictions) and in a synchronous online format. although courses will be online, there will be regularly scheduled  group activities and live meetings with the instructors in order to build community. so, it is expected that students will be active online participants. course meeting times for fall 2021 will be posted when they become available. miscellaneous questions 13) i have more questions. who do i contact? if you have additional questions, please feel free to contact us at ican@illinois.edu . illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists ican is a new one-year program for non-computer science college graduates who are interested in a high-tech computing career or pursuing a graduate degree in computer science. specifically designed coursework in computing fundamentals is coupled with individualized attention from world-class faculty, plus academic and career mentoring. learn more contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');