illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} #hero::before { background-image: url(//ws.engr.illinois.edu/sitemanager/viewphoto.aspx?id=16440&s=1600) !important; } skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home academics graduate academics illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum quick links is ican right for you? ican is online this year admissions requirements application process ican curriculum tuition, financial aid, & scholarships faqs upcoming admissions q&a sessions contact ican news applications for fall 2022 open soon! please check back soon for more information. do you see yourself in a high-tech computing career or pursuing a graduate degree in computing? are you looking for a program that will provide you with the training to be successful? if you have a bachelor’s degree in any field other than computer science, then the illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) program is designed especially for you. ican is a one-year (fall, spring, summer) program that results in a computing fundamentals certificate. ican’s mission is to broaden participation in computing through an accelerated program for non-computing college graduates. hands-on course work in computing fundamentals, individualized attention from world-class faculty, and academic and career mentoring empower ican students to make ground-breaking research contributions and technological innovations. ican welcomes diverse college majors, such as english, business, marketing, architecture, political science, biology, creative arts, and aerospace engineering. since ican students couple an additional area of expertise with computing, they bring a unique perspective that enriches computing. note: for the 2021-2022 academic year, the ican program will be offered in-person (depending on covid-19 restrictions) and in a synchronous online format. learn more about program requirements here. is the ican program right for you? ican is suitable for all non-specialists who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming in order to gain entry into a high-tech career or further their education in a graduate degree program. ican students come from all college backgrounds (english, business, marketing, political science, biology, civil engineering) and bring a unique perspective to computing. the program does not assume any experience with programming. ican offers: a hands-on program with carefully designed courses that focus on mentorship and meeting individual student needs. a small program with the available resources of a large research i university. a culture of collaboration where the best minds tackle a myriad of 21st-century problems by developing cutting-edge data science techniques and harnessing the power of petascale computing. thousands of creative and driven alumni who are entrepreneurs, educators, and technical visionaries. companies who have been founded or led by illinois computer science graduates are among the biggest names in the high-tech arena, including c3.ai, malwarebytes, match.com, microsoft, netscape, paypal, youtube, and yelp. ican students possess many of the following transferable skills: problem solving creativity synthesizing information dealing with complexity, ambiguity, and uncertainty focus meticulousness resilience admissions q&a sessions meet with members of the ican team  in these informal meet and greets sessions to learn more about the program and see if it could be the right fit for you. all meetings are online via zoom. registration is required. click on the title of each session below for information on how to join. no events found ican certificate program helps non-cs college graduates transition into computing! admission requirements the ican program is a broadening participation program designed for college graduates without a background in computer science. successful completion of the ican program results in a student receiving a computing fundamentals certificate. below are the admission requirements for the ican program. a baccalaureate degree (or higher) in any field other than computer science. college algebra overall gpa of 3.0 or above. unofficial transcripts are accepted for application review. test scores: a gre score is not required for admission into the ican program. application at a glance applications for fall 2022 open soon!  please check back later for more information. the holistic ican application is designed to allow each applicant to provide a comprehensive narrative of their personal and career experiences. students will provide information not only about how a future in computing will benefit their own goals, but how computing will benefit from the richness of their own backgrounds and experiences. below is a summary about the application process: 1. complete the online application. when filling out the application through university of illinois graduate college, select application type (2020 graduate application), program (computer science) and degree (computer science ican- non- degree certificate). applicants will provide their current résumé, transcripts, contact information for two references, and eight short-answer questions. sample questions include: why are you interested in the ican program? describe your skills (technical or non-technical) and experiences that would make you succeed in a computing path. what recent steps (if any) have you taken in this direction? the ican program strives to broaden the participation of computing. please share how your experiences, perspectives, skills, and talents will enrich computing. 2. participate in a virtual interview with ican administration . the interview is an invaluable part of the application process because it not only allows the students to better understand the ican program and think about their fit for the program , but it also allows the admissions committee to get to know the person behind the application. applicants will be asked to solve a basic logic puzzle during their interview. the problem - solving session is designed to mimic a collaborative learning and working process. it is not a test.  evaluators are not looking to see whether applicants will be able to independently arrive at a correct solution. there are many ways to solve a problem and to arrive at a solution and we are looking for applicants to communicate their thought process to us as they solve the problem . this will also be a chance for candidates to ask further questions to determine if the ican program is a good fit for their own goals. applicants selected for an interview will receive more information about this process upon interview invitation. full ican application process details ican curriculum completion of the ican program results in the computing fundamentals certificate, which is completed in one year (fall, spring, summer) and consists of 20 credit hours. semester 1 (7 credits) fundamentals of computer science i (3 credits) fundamentals of algorithms (3 credits) excursions in computing i (1 credit) semester 2 (7 credits) fundamentals of computer science ii (3 credits) fundamentals of algorithms and computational models (3 credits) excursions in computing ii (1 credit) semester 3 (6 credits) computing fundamentals capstone (3 credits) 400-level course from the traditional cs curriculum  (3 credits) the first two semesters consist of core computer science courses in programming, data structures, and algorithms. the curriculum also incorporates an innovative excursions component that provides students with breadth in the field through reading ground-breaking research papers, doing hands-on activities with core computing tools, and gaining exposure to different programming languages and paradigms. the final semester consists of students working on an industry or research project to leverage what they have learned in previous semesters, and they take a 400-level course from our extensive cs course catalog, which includes courses in data mining, machine learning, artificial intelligence, databases systems, etc. learn more about the ican curriculum for the 2021-2022 academic year, the ican program will be offered in-person (depending on covid-19 restrictions) and in a synchronous online format. although courses will be online, there will be regularly scheduled  group activities and live meetings with the instructors in order to build community. so, it is expected that students will be active online participants. fall 2021 course times will be posted when they are available- please check back soon. tuition 2021-22 tuition rates can be found here . ican students should refer the appropriate residency category for the grad engineering and engineering related rates, range ii. federal financial aid non-degree programs such as ican are currently not eligible to receive federal and state financial aid. for more information, visit financial aid at illinois. scholarships we have a substantial number of tuition scholarships available for the ican program. we work with corporate and philanthropic partners to provide scholarships to students in accordance with need and academic performance. no separate scholarship application is required. contact information please fill out this form or email ican@cs.illinois.edu to receive more information about ican! receive information about ican ican team tiffani williams teaching professor director of onramp programs yael gertner teaching assistant professor about illinois computer science we’re a big campus — big 10, to be exact — with $642 million spent on  research  and  development  in  a  typical  year.  we  have  15  schools  and colleges, including our internationally known grainger college of engineering, where the department of computer science resides. this substantial breadth offers many opportunities for ican students to impact not only  computing  but  medicine,  business,  the  arts,  media,  or  whatever  defines your research and passion. the demand for computer science education has exploded because computing underpins  just  about  every  aspect  of  modern  life.  the  arts,  science,  business,  medicine, and engineering all benefit from the computational power, modeling, and thinking found in computer science. our students and faculty are bringing their expertise to bear on many of society's most challenging problems. illinois computer science has a global reputation for developing revolutionary technology—where groundbreaking research addresses real-world problems. learn more about illinois cs ican news loar's passion for expanding possibilities in computing leads to support of ican news | september 1, 2021 new illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) progresses after first year success news | january 13, 2021 how to approach technology from a non-computing background news | november 4, 2020 sun, williams join illinois computer science faculty news | february 14, 2020 contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');