impact of an illinois cs degree | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home admissions impact of an illinois cs degree why illinois cs explore courses rankings & statistics plan your visit financial aid tuition & fees awards cs: the foundation of modern life after hours computer science underpins just about every aspect of modern life . the arts, sciences, business, medicine, and engineering all benefit from the computational power, modeling, and thinking found in computer science. illinois computer science has produced thousands of creative and driven graduates who have made significant contributions to the computing field and to society at large. those benefits are why computer scientists are in high demand. the u.s. department of labor forecasts "much faster than average" job growth for computer and information technology occupations through 2029. they're also highly paid, with a median wage of $88,240. with exclusive events like after hours , lectures from engineers in residence , and about 90 other technology talks, corporate days, and sponsored events occurring each year in the thomas m. siebel center for computer science alone, illinois computer science students get to interact with a ton of companies, from start-ups to household names like google and facebook. illinois computer science: a tradition of excellence blue waters supercomputer from the illiac to blue waters , openmp to mpi , mosaic to youtube , and the first vectorizing compilers to llvm , illinois computer science faculty, students, and alumni have long been at the forefront of excellence in computing research and education.  they’ve launched entirely new industries, generated billions of dollars in commerce, created tens of thousands of jobs, and revolutionized the way people communicate, shop, conduct business, and are entertained. companies that have been founded or led by illinois computer science graduates are among the biggest names in the high-tech arena, including c3.ai, malwarebytes, match.com, microsoft, netscape, optimizely, paypal, youtube, and yelp. outstanding faculty & research opportunities jiawei han invested as the michael aiken chair. our dynamic and stimulating research culture covers 11 research areas , with 110 potential faculty advisors in computer science and related fields for our top-five cs graduate program. this means that illinois computer science students can find a course or an expert on almost any topic in the discipline. and we haven't even begun to cover the opportunities available in our highly-ranked grainger college of engineering for interdiscliplinary studies and collaborations. our internationally recognized faculty currently includes 44 nsf career award winners, 19 acm fellows , 19 ieee fellows , and 9 sloan research fellows . with $33 million in annual research expenditures, our 100-plus cs faculty members are pioneering virtual reality , creating software to analyze the hiv capsid , investigating the algorithms behind social media , monitoring construction zones with drones , and harnessing the power of the data revolution . vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem entrepreneurship is not just about startups. it is a way of thinking and an approach to solving problems—a catalyst to inspiring the next generation of innovators. this mindset is an important part of our culture and is fully integrated across the curriculum, and is supported in and out of the classroom. that includes resources like the technology entrepreneur center and research park , which provide training, support, and experience to help students and faculty become successful entrepreneurs. our faculty and students are commercializing technology that provides: a tool to passively learn a foreign language while browsing the web. thomas reese (ms cs '15), flipword an advanced ability to secure online systems using a novel network verification tool.  professors brighten godfrey & matthew caesar, with dr. ahmed khurshid (phd cs '15), veriflow systems real-time structural health monitoring of bridges and other civil infrastructure. professor gul agha, embeddor technologies a visual data analytics platform to improve efficiency and reduce risks in construction. professor derek hoiem, reconstruct a platform to turn every object into an interactive display.  dr. brett jones (bs cs ’08, ms ’10, phd ’15), dr. kevin karsch (phd cs ‘15), and dr. raj sodhi (bs cs ’08, ms ’10, phd ’15), lightform tools to verify programs as they execute, to improve the safety, reliability, and correctness of software. professor grigore rosu, runtime verification extraordinary quality of life conveniently centered between chicago, indianapolis, and st. louis, the university of illinois provides an entertainment and cultural hub on par with the country's leading cities. our campus community is home to big 10 division i sports ; marquee theatrical and musical performances; and fantastic health and recreational facilities .  ranked by business insider as one of the best small cities for educated millenials , the cost of living in champaign-urbana is 60-178% less than cities like berkeley, palo alto, and boston, where peer institutions are located. learn about champaign-urbana's micro-urban community . on campus there are more than 1,000 student groups that provide a range of activities for social interaction, professional development, mentorship, charity, and fun. hackillinois , reflections | projections , and chictech are just a few of the exciting projects and events run by cs students where you can meet interesting people and find your passion. 5 reasons champaign urbana is a great place to live apply now become part of a tradition of excellence: of groundbreaking research, historic firsts, and future promise. begin undergraduate application begin graduate application contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');