indranil gupta
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty indranil gupta indranil gupta professor (217) 265-5517 indy@illinois.edu 3112 siebel center for comp sci for more information indranil gupta's home page distributed protocols research group (dprg) education ph.d., computer science, cornell university, ithaca, ny, 2004 bachelor of technology, computer science and engineering, indian institute of technology (iit), chennai, india, 1998 biography tl;dr: today, one can't escape distributed systems. they are all around us---from the datacenters and clouds we use directly or indirectly every day; to smart devices, smart homes, and smart buildings/cities; to machine learning running inside ai systems online and in the physical world. yet many common concepts, algorithms, and systems design and implementation techniques, pervade and permeate through many of these seemingly disparate types of distributed systems. prof. indranil gupta (indy) does research and teaching on these topics. his research is driven by a love of working on real problems (very often motivated by industry), devising solutions with intellectual depth, and then implementing and evaluating them with real testbeds and systems. he also collaborates with industry production teams. his group is one of the most diverse in the cs department. he teaches the world's largest (online) class on distributed systems, apart from regular on-campus teaching. sometimes he improvises music to teach computer science. in detail: prof. indranil gupta (indy) is a professor of computer science at the university of illinois at urbana-champaign. indy leads the distributed protocols research group in the cs department at uiuc. he is interested in research on distributed systems, with specific focus on large-scale distributed systems such as datacenters. cloud computing systems, iot, distributed machine learning, etc.  indranil gupta is an acm distinguished scientist and ieee senior member. indranil is recipient of the the nsf career award in 2005, the junior xerox award for faculty research in 2008, the cas/beckman fellowship in 2009, and the academy for entrepreneurial leadership faculty fellowship in 2010. he has won best paper awards at ieee ic2e 2018, ieee/acm ccgrid 2017, ieee ic2e 2016, ieee icac 2015 and bigmine 2012. indranil has received teaching recognition in the uiuc "list of teachers ranked as excellent" multiple times since 2003. he served as general chair of acm podc 2007; pc co-chair at multiple conferences over the years (usenix hotcloud 2018, ieee ic2e 2017, ladis 2017, ieee iccac 2016, acm demist 2016, ieee p2p 2014, acm/ifip/usenix middleware 2010, ieee saso 2010 and stodis 2005). he is on the editorial board for both acm taas (transactions on autonomous and adaptive systems) and ieee tcc (transactions on cloud computing). previously, indranil received his phd in computer science from cornell university in 2004. he has worked at google (2011-12), ibm research (t.j. watson) and microsoft research (cambridge, uk). indranil obtained his bachelor of technology (computer science) from the indian institute of technology (iit), chennai/madras, in 1998. indy is a world leader in inventing and implementing novel systems techniques that make distributed systems more reliable, predictable, and manageable. these include contributions and interests in both: a) core distributed systems topics, as well as b) distributed systems + x topics. core distributed systems topics include batch processing, stream processing, and distributed storage---in all these areas his work has solved problems faced by open-source distributed systems used widely in industry. in the past he has worked on peer to peer systems, and nature-inspired distributed systems. distributed systems + x topics include collaborations and research results in distributed machine learning, distributed systems + iot, verification of distributed systems, and others. prof. gupta also collaborates with industry, contributing to their production systems as well as helping shine light on their production systems. his research results are in use by multiple prominent companies.  prof. gupta runs one of the most diverse groups in the cs department---about 50% of his phd students are women. for more research information, papers, slides, and software see the website of prof. gupta's "distributed protocols research group" (dprg): http://dprg.cs.uiuc.edu/ prof. indranil gupta (indy) is also a leader in democratizing the teaching of distributed systems. he teaches the world's largest (online) course on distributed systems. offered via coursera, his "cloud computing concepts" courses (parts 1 and 2) together have about 100k students annually, and are used by companies, startups, and taken by students of all generations, across 198 countries. in addition, indy loves teaching in the classroom and handles classes of up to 500 students per semester, who are all excited to learn about distributed systems! since you made it this far in the bio (or perhaps you jumped ahead strategically---either way, nice work!), you get a prize! did you know that indy has a youtube channel where he improvises songs to teach distributed systems concepts and on topics related to cs research? check out one of his videos here! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dg2wmdkkey0 professional registrations ieee senior member acm distinguished scientist research interests distributed machine learning distributed systems + iot large-scale distributed systems research areas systems and networking selected articles in journals for all papers, slides, and software see: distributed protocols research group webpage: http://dprg.cs.uiuc.edu/ courses taught - last four years cs 425 - distributed systems cs 525 - advanced distributed systems cs 591 - adv sem in distributed systems cs 591 - advanced seminar cs 591 - distributed systems seminar cs 598 - cloud capstone cs 598 - cloud computing capstone ece 428 - distributed systems related news ci fellowships support post-doctoral research in uncertain economic times news | august 20, 2021 phd students win highly competitive fellowships from industry news | july 28, 2020 the inner workings of cloud migration news | august 30, 2019 four from illinois cs chosen for 2018 rising stars in eecs workshop news | october 12, 2018 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');