mark hasegawa-johnson
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty mark hasegawa-johnson mark hasegawa-johnson professor, electrical and computer engineering (217) 333-0925 jhasegaw@illinois.edu 2011 beckman institute for more information statistical speech technology group education ph.d., elec. eng. & comp. sc., mit, 1996 biography mark hasegawa-johnson has been on the faculty at the university of illinois since 1999, where he is currently a professor of electrical and computer engineering.  he received his ph.d. in 1996 at mit, with a thesis titled "formant and burst spectral measures with quantitative error models for speech sound classification," after which he was a post-doc at ucla from 1996-1999.  prof. hasegawa-johnson is a fellow of the acoustical society of america, and a senior member of ieee and acm.  he is currently treasurer of isca, and senior area editor of the ieee transactions on audio, speech and language.  he has published 280 peer-reviewed journal articles and conference papers in the general area of automatic speech analysis, including machine learning models of articulatory and acoustic phonetics, prosody, dysarthria, non-speech acoustic events, audio source separation, and under-resourced languages. teaching statement professor hasegawa-johnson typically teaches artificial intelligence (cs 440/ece 448), multimedia signal processing (ece 417), and speech and image analysis (ece 401).  he has also taught speech processing (ece 537), digital signal processing (ece 551), audio engineering (ece 403), pattern recognition (ece 544na), and probability (ece 313). research statement dr. hasegawa-johnson's research is focused on the area of automatic speech recognition, with a particular focus on the mathematization of linguistic concepts. in the past five years, dr. hasegawa-johnson's group has developed mathematical models of concepts from linguistics including a rudimentary model of pre-conscious speech perception (the landmark-based speech recognizer), a model that interprets pronunciation variability by figuring out how the talker planned his or her speech movements (tracking of tract variables from acoustics, and of gestures from tract variables), and a model that uses the stress and rhythm of natural language (prosody) to disambiguate confusable sentences. recent application successes include: * speech recognition for talkers with cerebral palsy.  the automatic system, suitably constrained, outperforms a human listener. * retrieval of broadcast television segments in four languages, based on queries specified in the international phonetic alphabet.  the illinois team, including students of prof. hasegawa-johnson and prof. huang, took third place in this international competition, and was the only finalist from the united states. * automatic detection and labeling of non-speech audio events.  the illinois team, including students of prof. hasegawa-johnson and prof. huang, took first place in this international competition. * teaching chinese.  software and methods developed by prof. hasegawa-johnson, together with his colleagues from linguistics and psychology, are being tested in mandarin language classrooms at the university of illinois. undergraduate research opportunities professor hasegawa-johnson typically supervises one or two undergraduate research projects per year, thesis research preferred.  past student theses include automatic recognition of musical genre, factorial hmms for the automatic recognition of speech in music backgrounds, prosody-dependent speech recognition, image source modeling of room impulse response, sonorancy classification for automatic language id, phonetic landmark detection for automatic language id, and digital field recorder for acquisition of a natural audio database. research interests acoustic phonetics, audio signal processing and speech recognition, speech and auditory physiology. research areas artificial intelligence teaching honors daily illini list of teachers ranked as excellent by their students.   fall 2006 (ece 544na, pattern recognition), spring 2004 (ece 303, audio engineering), spring 2003 (ece 303, audio engineering), spring 2002 (ece 303, audio engineering), spring 2001 (ece 303, audio engineering) eminent initiate, alpha chapter of eta kappa nu (university of illinois), may 3, 2003.  co-chapter-advisor, 2003-4.  chapter advisor, 2004-6. research honors principal investigator, "landmark detection for lvcsr,"  johns hopkins clsp summer workshop ws04, july and august, 2004.  funded by nsf, nsa, and darpa; jhu pi is fred jelinek. nsf career award, 1/1/2002-12/31/2007 individual national research service award, national institutes of health, 1998-1999. frederic vinton hunt post-doctoral fellowship, acoustical society of america, 1996-1997. who's who in america (national biography listing), 2006-10.  who's who in science and engineering, 1992. paul l. fortescue graduate fellow, ieee, 1988-1989. courses taught - last four years cs 440 - artificial intelligence ece 401 - signal and image analysis ece 417 - multimedia signal processing ece 448 - artificial intelligence ece 498 - special topics in ece ece 590 - speech related news load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');