jian peng
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty jian peng jian peng associate professor and willett faculty fellow (217) 300-2825 jianpeng@illinois.edu 2118 siebel center for comp sci for more information jian peng's home page. biography jian peng has been a professor of computer science at uiuc since 2015. before joining illinois, jian was a postdoc at csail at mit and a visiting scientist at the whitehead institute for biomedical research. he obtained his ph.d. in computer science from toyota technological institute at chicago in 2013. his research interests include bioinformatics, cheminformatics, and machine learning. algorithms developed by jian and his co-workers were successful in several scientific challenges, including the critical assessment of protein structure prediction (casp) competitions and a few dream challenges on translational medicine and pharmacogenomics. recently, jian has received the overton prize, an nsf career award, a phrma foundation award, and an alfred p. sloan research fellowship. academic positions associate professor, department of computer science research statement 1. computational molecular and systems biology protein structure, interaction, and function are by nature intertwined, with structure, or structural properties, playing a large role in defining the function and understanding human diseases. as such, determining protein structure has been one of the most important challenges in biology. in parallel, given the many obstacles to experimental structure determination, computational prediction of protein structure remains one of the longest-standing challenges in computational biology. my group has developed a number of machine learning algorithms to tackle this problem. in particular, deepcontact, an approach that employs deep learning for protein contact prediction, has achieved substantial improvement over previous approaches, highlighted by its performance (as a co-winner) in the most recent critical assessment of protein structure prediction (casp12) in 2016. in another recent work, we developed deepsignal, a recurrent neural network model to study protein function, such as phosphorylation and motif binding. applied to the cellular signaling system, deepsignal not only improves the prediction but also enable mutational analysis for studying the functional variants in human diseases, such as cancer. we have then extended the model for other types of protein-substrate interactions, including protein-rna binding and protein-peptide binding. most recently, we developed a deep-learning model to integrate evolutionary representations for efficient protein design and engineering. moving from individual molecules, a systematic understanding of their interactions and functions, from heterogeneous datasets, is critical for both biological and translational medicine research. i have been developing efficient machine learning algorithms, especially integrative manifold learning algorithms, to extract information from various interactomic datasets. my algorithm, mashup, takes full advantage of network-specific topology by learning a canonical representation that best integrates the topological patterns across multiple biological networks. its substantial improvements over the state-of-the-art methods in distinct functional inference tasks demonstrate its applicability to effectively deciphering functional properties of genes from interactomes. based on mashup, my group has developed generalized versions to incorporate other data types, including text, homology, and structures 2. pharmacogenomics and human disease genomics computational prediction of drug–target interactions (dtis) has become an important step in the drug discovery or repositioning process, aiming to identify putative new drugs or novel targets for existing drugs to accelerate drug discovery. collaborating with biologists, my group has developed dtinet based on mashup that integrates diverse drug information for dti prediction. validated on benchmarks and by experiments, dtinet offers a practical and accurate tool to predict unknown dtis, which may provide new insights into drug discovery or repositioning. furthermore, i have been working with doctors and medical researchers, applying my algorithms to studying human diseases. in a recent cell systems article, we systematically mapped molecular pathways underlying the toxicity of alpha-synuclein, a protein central to parkinson’s disease. to translate findings from yeast screens, we developed a computational method to integrates a steiner prize-collecting approach with homology assignment through mashup integration with sequence, structure, and interaction topology. this work has been featured as the cover article in the issue and received multiple highlights in media and a bishop dr. karl golser paper award. based on the network, we have performed a high-depth exome-capture of these genes in 500 patients with synucleinopathy and identified novel rare variants that are enriched in carriers of mutations in lrrk2 and gba.  collaborating with researchers from ucsd school of medicine, we have identified a novel way to stratify cancer patients by their tumor mutations using networks. 3. data analytics and machine learning in addition to bioinformatics problems, we have been working on developing new machine learning algorithms for data analysis and deep reinforcement learning algorithms for process optimization of scientific experiments. collaborating with chemists, we have been developing a fully automated molecular synthesis system powered by deep learning and reinforcement learning algorithms. research areas bioinformatics and computational biology honors nsf career award (2017) phrma foundation award in informatics (2017) ncsa faculty fellowship (2016) sloan research fellowship (2016) courses taught - last four years cs 466 - introduction to bioinformatics cs 598 - machine lrning computation bio stat 361 - prob & stat for computer sci related news illinois cs professors earn c3.ai digital transformation institute grants in ai for energy and climate security news | june 14, 2021 peng's collaborative work in crop prediction earns hpc innovation excellence award news | january 20, 2021 peng a part of multi-institutional research team to investigate parkinson's disease news | september 16, 2020 cs faculty secure new nsf grants totaling $4.2 million news | september 8, 2020 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');