jian huang
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty jian huang jian huang assistant professor, electrical and computer engineering (217) 300-3104 jianh@illinois.edu 212 coordinated science lab for more information jian's research homepage education ph.d., computer science, georgia institute of technology, 2017 research interests systems security memory and storage systems computer architecture computer systems research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing systems and networking selected articles in journals energy-efficient video processing for virtual reality. yue leng, chi-chun chen, qiuyue sun, jian huang, yuhao zhu. ieee micro, the top picks issue 2020 offloading to improve the battery life of mobile devices. ranveer chandra, steve hodges, anirudh badam, jian huang. spotlight in ieee pervasive computing (speical issue on energy harvesting and power management), volume 15, no. 4, 2016 articles in conference proceedings understanding and finding crash-consistency bugs in parallel file systems. jinghan sun, chen wang, jian huang, marc snir. proceedings of the 12th usenix workshop on hot topics in storage and file systems (hotstorage'20). p-inspect: architectural support for programmable non-volatile memory frameworks. apostolos kokolis, thomas shull, jian huang, josep torrellas. proceedings of the 53rd ieee/acm international symposium on microarchitecture (micro'20). freac cache: folded-logic reconfigurable computing in the last level cache. ashutosh dhar, xiaohao wang, hubertus franke, jinjun xiong, jian huang, wen-mei hwu, nam sung kim, deming chen. proceedings of the 53rd ieee/acm international symposium on microarchitecture (micro'20). watcher: in-situ failure diagnosis. hongyu liu, sam silvestro, xiangyu zhang, jian huang, tongping liu. proceedings of the acm on programming languages (oopsla'20). hoop: efficient hardware-assisted out-of-place update for non-volatile memory. miao cai, chance c. coats, jian huang. proceedings of the 47th international symposium on computer architecture (isca'20). project almanac: a time-traveling solid-state drive. xiaohao wang, chance c. coats, jian huang.
11th annual non-volatile memories workshop (nvmw'20). deepstore: in-storage acceleration for intelligent queries. vikram sharma mailthoday, zaid qureshi, weixin liang, ziyan feng, simon garcia de gonzalo, youjie li, hubertus franke, jinjun xiong, jian huang, wen-mei hwu. in proceedings of the 52nd ieee/acm international symposium on microarchitecture (micro'19). understanding security vulnerabilities in file systems. miao cai, hao huang, jian huang.
proceedings of the 10th acm sigops asia-pacific workshop on systems (apsys'19). accelerating distributed reinforcement learning with in-switch computing. youjie li, iou-jen liu, deming chen, alexander schwing, jian huang. in proceedings of the 46th international symposium on computer architecture (isca'19). halo: accelerating flow classification for scalable packet processing in nfv. yifan yuan, yipeng wang, ren wang, jian huang. in proceedings of the 46th international symposium on computer architecture (isca'19). energy-efficient video processing for virtual reality. yue leng, chi-chun chen, qiuyue sun, jian huang, yuhao zhu. in proceedings of the 46th international symposium on computer architecture (isca'19). autopersist: an easy-to-use java nvm framework based on reachability. thomas shull, jian huang, josep torrellas. in proceedings of the 40th acm sigplan conference on programming language design and implementation (pldi'19). project almanac: a time-traveling solid-state drive. xiaohao wang, you zhou, chance c. coats, jian huang. in proceedings of the 14th european conference on computer systems (eurosys'19). flatflash: exploiting the byte-accessibility of ssds within a unified memory-storage hierarchy. 
ahmed abulila, vikram sharma mailthoday, zaid qureshi, jian huang, nam sung kim, jinjun xiong, wen-mei hwu. proceedings of the 24th acm international conference on architectural support for programming languages and operating systems (asplos'19). sdc: a software defined cache for efficient data indexing. fan ni, song jiang, hong jiang, jian huang, xingbo wu. in proceedings of the 33rd international conference on supercomputing (ics'19). using speculation to reduce the checking overhead of persistent objects in nvm frameworks.
thomas shull, jian huang, josep torrellas. proceedings of the 15th acm sigplan/sigops international conference on virtual execution environments (vee'19). semantic-aware virtual reality video streaming. yue leng*, chi-chun chen*, chris sun, jian huang, yuhao zhu. proceedings of the 9th acm sigops asia-pacific workshop on systems (apsys'18). defining a high-level programming model for emerging nvram technologies. thomas shull, jian huang, josep torrellas. in proceedings of the 15th international conference on managed languages and runtimes (manlang'18). flashguard: leveraging intrinsic flash properties to defend against encryption ransomware. jian huang, jun xu, xinyu xing, peng liu, moinuddin k. qureshi. in proceedings of the 24th acm conference on computer and communications security (ccs'17). flashblox: achieving both performance isolation and uniform lifetime for virtualized ssds. jian huang, anirudh badam, laura caulfield, suman nath, sudipta sengupta, bikash sharma, moinuddin k. qureshi. in proceedings of the 15th usenix conference on file and storage technologies (fast'17). pallas: semantic-aware checking for finding deep bugs in fast path. jian huang, michael r. allen-bond, xuechen zhang. in proceedings of the 22nd international conference on architectural support for programming languages and operating systems (asplos'17). an evolutionary study of linux memory management for fun and profit. jian huang, moinuddin k. qureshi, karsten schwan. in proceedings of 2016 usenix annual technical conference (usenix atc'16). weardrive: fast and energy-efficient storage for wearables. jian huang, anirudh badam, ranveer chandra, ed nightingale. in proceedings of 2015 usenix annual technical conference (usenix atc'15). unified address translation for memory-mapped ssds with flashmap. jian huang, anirudh badam, moinuddin k. qureshi, karsten schwan. in proceedings of the 42nd international symposium on computer architecture (isca'15). nvram-aware logging in transaction systems. jian huang, karsten schwan, moinuddin k. qureshi. in proceedings of the 41st international conference on very large data bases (vldb'15). understanding issue correlations: a case study of the hadoop system. jian huang, xuechen zhang, karsten schwan. in proceedings of 2015 acm symposium on cloud computing (socc'15). scibox: online sharing of scientific data via the cloud. jian huang, xuechen zhang, greg eisenhauer, karsten schwan, matthew wolf, stephane ethier, scott klasky. in proceedings of the 28th international parallel & distributed processing symposium (ipdps'14). high performance design of hbase with rdma over infiniband. jian huang, xiangyong ouyang, md wasi-ur-rahman, hao wang, miao luo, hari subramoni, chet murthy, dhabaleswar k. panda. in proceedings of the 26th international parallel & distributed processing symposium (ipdps'12). professional societies nvmw 2019/2020/2021, program committee memsys 2019, program committee ispass 2021, registration chair hotstorage 2020, session chair usenix atc 2020, session chair fast 2020, session chair micro 2020, program committee isca 2018/2020, external review committee asplos 2020, external review committee hpca 2020, program committee usenix fast 2020, program committee usenix atc 2018/2019/2020, program committee hpca 2018/2021, external review committee computer architecture letter 2017/2018, reviewer acm transactions on storage 2016/2021, reviewer honors ieee micro top picks (2020) google faculty research award (2018) netapp faculty fellowship award (2018) nsf research initiation initiative (crii) award (2018) acm dissertation award nomination (2017) dissertation award, college of computing, georgia tech  (2017) microsoft research outstanding project award (2017) ieee micro top picks honorable mention (2016) best paper award, usenix atc (2015) courses taught - last four years ece 411 - computer organization & design ece 598 - adv memory & storage systems related news cs faculty receive google faculty research awards news | april 11, 2019 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');