k-12 outreach programs | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home broadening participation k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs the department of computer science in the grainger college of engineering at the university of illinois at urbana-champaign has a global reputation for developing revolutionary technology—where groundbreaking research addresses real-world problems. we take great pride in our role in educating computer scientists who change our world by doing things that were once thought impossible. computer science underpins just about every aspect of modern life. the arts, science, business, medicine, and engineering all benefit from the computational power, modeling, and thinking found in computer science. these skills are highly sought-after in industry and academia and result in many lucrative, impactful, and fulfilling career opportunities. however, being a computer scientist is rarely even considered by young people—especially girls and minorities—as they dream about what they want to be when they grow up. we invite you to help us change that. illinois computer science has developed a series of outreach programs targeted especially for our local community to raise awareness about and interest in computer science. we are looking for advocates, partners, and participants for our programs that will help inform k-12 educators and perspective students and their parents about the fascinating and fun applications of computer science. please join us, help us spread the word, and support these upcoming activities: chictech visits chictech visits (pronounced “sheek-tek”) are led by members of the women in computer science student club. an all-volunteer chictech team will travel to illinois high schools to deliver a presentation to explain and demystify the field of computer science. the chictech team will give a glimpse into life as an illinois cs student and explore the exciting and challenging career options open to graduates. the presentation also confronts the stereotypes of the male-dominated field and debunks myths, cites success stories, and shares personal experiences. to schedule a chictech visit, please email contact@illinoiswcs.org . chictech retreat led by the women in computer science student club, chictech retreat is an overnight weekend conference for high schoolers to get an introduction to technology and the culture of illinois computer science. topics are focused on women's impact on computing. activities include technology workshops on scratch, html, or javascript depending on experience level, and also include several social activities that foster networking and teamwork. the chictech retreat is usually held each november, and all high schoolers are welcome to apply. application information will be posted on the cs outreach calendar. you can also email questions to contact@illinoiswcs.org . girls who code illinois computer science hosts a chapter of girls who code ( girlswhocode.com ), a club that allows middle school and high school girls to explore coding in a fun and friendly environment. the goal is to inspire, educate, and equip girls with the computing skills to pursue 21st century opportunities. the illinois computer science girls who code club is full for the 2019-2020 school year. if you would like to be added to our waitlist, please email ccoleman@illinois.edu . illinois computer science sail organized by illinois computer science students and staff, sail is a free, day-long showcase for high school students to learn about computer science in fun workshops, explore career opportunities, and take a campus tour and experience what it’s like to be a computer science student in the college of engineering at the university of illinois. illinois computer science sail is held each april, and information will be posted on the cs outreach calendar. you can also email questions to cs-sail@lists.cs.illinois.edu . ncwit (national center for women & information technology) aspirations in computing program illinois computer science established the central illinois affiliate of the ncwit's aspirations in computing. this program is a talent pipeline initiative to increase women’s meaningful participation in computing careers by providing encouragement, visibility, community, leadership opportunities, scholarships, and internships to high potential technically inclined young women. applications for the ncwit aspirations program open each september 1, and the recipients are recognized each april in conjunction with our sail event. information will be posted on the cs outreach calendar. 4-h computer connections by partnering with 4-h ( 4h.extension.illinois.edu ), illinois computer science reaches 1,000 middle school-age students statewide with easy-to-use computer programming modules based on the scratch online programming environment. contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');