k-12 resources | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home broadening participation k-12 outreach & resources k-12 resources the department of computer science at the university of illinois at urbana-champaign takes great pride in our role in educating computer scientists who change our world by doing things that were thought impossible. computer science underpins just about every aspect of modern life: the arts, science, business, medicine, and engineering. these skills are highly sought-after in industry and academia and result in many lucrative, impactful, and fulfilling career opportunities. we have assembled this list of local and national resources and activities to help encourage youth and family engagement in computing (also available in pdf ): department of computer science illinois computer science has developed a series of outreach programs targeted especially for our local community to raise awareness about and interest in cs, including the chictech retreat, girls who code, the gems computer science camp for girls, 4-h computer connections, and sail. the department also participates the national center for women & information technology aspirations in computing program. for more, see cs.illinois.edu/engage/k-12-outreach . college of engineering engineering open house this annual student-run event brings students and families to campus to learn first-hand about exciting opportunities in engineering, including cs. wyse summer camps at engineering illinois worldwide youth in science and engineering camps are designed to provide stem-interested students the opportunity to experience advanced curricula, world-class facilities, and an “away from home,” collegiate experience at one of the best engineering schools in the nation and the world. university of illinois extension 4-h academies computer science academy: learn to program with this introduction to programming with scratch! in this academy, we'll use the scratch programming environment, which is aimed at beginners, but powerful enough to keep even seasoned programmers engaged and entertained. after learning basic techniques you'll design projects of your own choosing - computer games, animated stories, interactive programs - limited only by your own imagination. the software used is free and runs in any web browser, so you'll be able to continue your projects, and create new ones, after the academy is over. mathematics, science, & technology education (mste), college of education ctrl-shift comprised of k-12 school practitioners, community members, entrepreneurs, plus illinois faculty & staff, this group discusses cs in the k-12 schools as well as support and research for schoolbased implementation of computational thinking. national organizations code.org | grades k–12 code.org is a nonprofit dedicated to expanding access to computer science, and increasing participation by women and underrepresented students of color. their vision is that every student in every school should have the opportunity to learn computer science. they believe computer science should be part of core curriculum, alonside other courses such as biology, chemistry or algebra. please visit their site to access their free curriculum, workshops, tools, and engage in their programs. the national center for women & information technology ncwit is a non-profit community of more than 600 universities, companies, non-profits, and government organizations nationwide to increase women’s participation in computing and technology. ncwit provides resources for recruiting, retaining, and advancing women from k-12 and higher education through industry and entrepreneurial careers. computer science curriculum resources codecademy | grades 9–12 classes for learning javascript, java, python, ruby, and html/css. hopscotch | grades 3–12 ios application used to design games and share them. khan academy | grades 6–12 javascript and html/css video tutorials and challenges. range from drawing basic shapes to making interactive webpages. gives students the tools to make games, animations and webpages. lightbot | grades 4–12 students lead a robot through a series of puzzles while learning programming principles. scratch | grades k–12 students build their own games and animations with colored code blocks. step by step tutorials. students can create teams and work on projects together. lots of examples of other people’s projects. tynker | grades k–8 variety of activities based on the student’s interests and age. club support google cs first | grades k–12 plans for a variety of cs clubs each with a different focus. includes activity plans. girls who code nonprofit organization working to close the gender gap in the technology and engineering sectors. additional resources makey makey | all ages, hardware fab lab | all ages, local community resource articles on computer science curriculum “coding in the classroom: a long-overdue inclusion” — edutopia.org/blog/coding-classroom-long-overdueinclusion-merle-huerta “15+ ways of teaching every student to code (even without a computer)” — edutopia.org/blog/15-ways-teachingstudents-coding-vicki-davis “add coding to your elementary curriculum . . . right now” — edutopia.org/blog/add-coding-elementarycurriculum-now-matt-harrell “create a family coding day for hour of code” — edutopia.org/blog/family-coding-day-hour-of-code-sampatterson if you have questions or want to learn more about these resources, please email cs-outreach@illinois.edu contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');