volodymyr kindratenko
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty volodymyr kindratenko volodymyr kindratenko research associate professor, ncsa (217) 265-0209 kindrtnk@illinois.edu 3050e nat center for suprcomp appl for more information home page education d.sc., analytical chemistry, university of antwerp, antwerp, belgium, 1997 m.sc., mathematics and informatics, vynnychenko state pedagogical university, kirovograd, ukraine, 1993 biography i am a senior research scientist at the national center for supercomputing applications (ncsa), an adjunct associate professor in the department of electrical and computer engineering (ece) and research associate professor in the department of computer science  (cs) at the university of illinois at urbana-champaign (uiuc). i received the d.sc. degree from the university of antwerp (uia), belgium, in 1997 and the specialist degree from the vynnychenko state pedagogical university (kdpu), kirovograd, ukraine, in 1993. prior to becoming a research scientist, i was a postdoctoral research associate at ncsa. academic positions research associate professor, cs,  uiuc, 2018-present adjunct associate professor, ece, uiuc, 2013-present visiting lecturer, ece, uiuc, 2009-2013 senior research scientist, ncsa, uiuc, 2004-present teaching statement i teach computer engineering undergraduate courses in digital logic, computing systems design and programming. design teams sc student cluster competition, team mentor, 2016-2020 research statement my research interests include high-performance computing, special-purpose computing architectures, machine learning systems and applications. i work on the development and deployment of next-generation hpc systems based on computational accelerators and on the design and implementation of scientific applications for such systems. undergraduate research opportunities students with strong programming skills interested in exploring special-purpose and accelerator-based architectures an machine learning, deep learning. research interests deep learning systems and applications parallel computing special-purpose computing architectures high-performance computing research areas artificial intelligence computer architecture computer system architecture parallel / high-performance computing parallel systems scientific computing books edited or co-edited (original editions) numerical computations with gpus, kindratenko, volodymyr (ed.), springer, isbn 978-3-319-06547-2, 2014. modern accelerator technologies for geographic information science, shi, xuan; kindratenko, volodymyr; yang, chaowei (eds.), springer, isbn 978-1-4614-8744-9, 2013. proceedings of the 2012 international workshop on modern accelerator technologies for giscience (mat4giscience 2012). proceedings of the 2011 symposium on application accelerators in high-performance computing (saahpc), ieee publishing, isbn 978-0-7695-4448-9, 2011. proceedings of the 4th international workshop on high-performance reconfigurable computing technology and applications (held in conjunction with sc10), ieee publishing, isbn 978-1-4244-9517-7, 2010. proceedings of the 3rd international workshop on high-performance reconfigurable computing technology and applications (held in conjunction with sc09), acm press, isbn 978-1-60558-721-9, 2009. proceedings of the 2st international workshop on high-performance reconfigurable computing technology and applications (held in conjunction with sc08), ieee publishing, isbn 978-1-4244-2826-7, 2008. proceedings of the 1st international workshop on high-performance reconfigurable computing technology and applications (held in conjunction with sc07), acm press, isbn 978-1-59593-894-7, 2007. selected articles in journals e. park, v. kindratenko, y. hashash, shared memory parallelization of large-scale 3d polyhedral particle simulation, submitted to computers and geotechnics, 2020. eliu huerta, asad khan, edward davis, colleen bushell, william gropp, daniel katz, volodymyr kindratenko, seid koric, william kramer, brendan mcginty, kenton mchenry, aaron saxton, convergence of artificial intelligence and high-performance computing on nsf-supported cyberinfrastructure, journal of big data, 2020, 7:88. e. huerta, g. allen, i. andreoni, j. antelis, e. bachelet, b. berriman, f. bianco, r. biswas, m. carrasco, k. chard, m. cho, p. cowperthwaite, z. etienne, m. fishbach, f. forster, d. george, t. gibbs, m. graham, w. gropp, r. gruendl, a. gupta, r. haas, s. habib, e. jennings, m. margaret, e. katsavounidis, d. katz, a. khan, v. kindratenko, w. kramer, x. liu, a. mahabal, z. marka, k. mchenry, j. miller, c. moreno, m. neubauer, s. oberlin, a. olivas, d. petravick, a. rebei, s. rosofsky, m. ruiz, a. saxton, b. schutz, a. schwing, e. seidel, s. shapiro, h. shen, l. singer, b. sipocz, l. sun, j. towns, a. tsokaros, w. wei, j. wells, t. williams, j. xiong, z. zhao, and y. shen, enabling real-time multi-messenger astrophysics discoveries with deep learning, nature reviews physics, vol. 1, pp. 600–608, 2019. f. pratas, p. trancoso, l. sousa, a. stamatakis, g. shi, v. kindratenko, fine-grain parallelism using multi-core, cell/be, and gpu systems, parallel computing, vol. 38, no. 8, pp. 365-390, 2012. g. shi, v. kindratenko, i. ufimtsev, t. martinez, j. phillips, s. gottlieb, implementation of scientific computing applications on the cell broadband engine, scientific programming, vol. 17, no. 1-2, pp. 135-152, 2009. g. shi, v. kindratenko, s. gottlieb, the bottom-up implementation of one milc lattice qcd application on the cell blade, international journal of parallel programming, vol. 37, no. 5, pp. 488-507, 2009. v. kindratenko, a. myers, r. brunner, implementation of the two-point angular correlation function on a high-performance reconfigurable computer, scientific programming, 2009. t. el-ghazawi, e. el-araby, m. huang, k. gaj, v. kindratenko, d. buell, the promise of high-performance reconfigurable computing, ieee computer, vol. 41, no. 2, pp. 78-85, 2008. articles in conference proceedings s. luo, m. vellakal, s. koric, v. kindratenko, j. cu, parameter identification of rans turbulence model using physics-embedded neural network, in proc. first international workshop on the application of machine learning techniques to computational fluid dynamics simulations and analysis (cfdml’20), isc high performance, 2020. v. kindratenko, d. mu, y. zhan, j. maloney, s. hashemi, b. rabe, k. xu, r. campbell, j. peng, w. gropp, hal: computer system for scalable deep learning, in proc. pearc’20: practice and experience in advanced research computing proceedings, 2020. d. lapine, v. kindratenko, l. rosu, ncsa internship program for cyberinfrastructure professionals, in proc. pearc’20: practice and experience in advanced research computing proceedings, 2020. a. misra, v. kindratenko, hls-based acceleration framework for deep convolutional neural networks, in proc. 16th international symposium on applied reconfigurable computing (arc2020), 2020. s. hashemi, p. rausch, b. rabe, k. chou, s. liu, v. kindratenko, r. campbell, tensorflow-tracing: a performance tuning framework for production, in proc. 2019 usenix conference on operational machine learning (opml'19), 2019. g. shi, r. babich, m. clark, b. joo, s. gottlieb, v. kindratenko, the fat-link computation on large gpu clusters for lattice qcd, in proc. symposium on application accelerators in high-performance computing (saahpc), 2012. g. shi, v. kindratenko, r. kooper, p. bajcsy, gpu acceleration of an image characterization algorithm for document similarity analysis, in proc. 9th acs/ieee international conference on computer systems and applications (aiccsa), 2011, pp. 209-216. d. ye, a. titov, v. kindratenko, i. ufimtsev, t. martinez, porting optimized gpu kernels to a multi-core cpu: computational quantum chemistry application example, in proc. symposium on application accelerators in high-performance computing (saahpc), 2011, pp. 73-75. g. shi, s. gottlieb, a. torok, v. kindratenko, design of milc lattice qcd application for gpu clusters, in proc. ieee international parallel and distributed processing symposium (ipdps), 2011. s. gottlieb, g. shi, a. torok, v. kindratenko, quda programming for staggered quarks, in proc. the xxviii international symposium on lattice field theory (lattice), 2010. a. torok, s. basak, a. bazavov, c. bernard, c. detar, e. freeland , w. freeman, s. gottlieb, u. heller, j.e. hetrick, v. kindratenko, j. laiho, l. levkova, m. oktay, j. osborn, g. shi, r. sugar , d. toussaint, r.s. van de water, electromagnetic splitting of charged and neutral mesons, in proc. the xxviii international symposium on lattice field theory (lattice), 2010. j. enos, c. steffen, j. fullop, m. showerman, g. shi, k. esler, v. kindratenko, j. stone, j. phillips, quantifying the impact of gpus on performance and energy efficiency in hpc clusters, in proc. work in progress in green computing, 2010. g. shi, s. gottlieb, a. totok, v. kindratenko, accelerating quantum chromodynamics calculations with gpus, in proc. symposium on application accelerators in high-performance computing (saahpc), 2010. a. titov, v. kindratenko, i. ufimtsev, t. martinez, generation of kernels to calculate electron repulsion integrals of high angular momentum functions on gpus – preliminary results, in proc. symposium on application accelerators in high-performance computing (saahpc), 2010. a. pant, h. jafri, v. kindratenko, phoenix: a runtime environment for high performance computing on chip multiprocessors, in proc. 17th euromicro international conference on parallel, distributed and network-based processing – pdp'09, 2009, pp. 119-126 m. showerman, j. enos, a. pant, v. kindratenko, c. steffen, r. pennington, w. hwu, qp: a heterogeneous multi-accelerator cluster, in proc. 10th lci international conference on high-performance clustered computing – lci'09, 2009. d. roeh, v. kindratenko, r. brunner, accelerating cosmological data analysis with graphics processors, in proc. 2nd workshop on general-purpose computation on graphics processing units – gpgpu-2, 2009. v. kindratenko, r. brunner, accelerating cosmological data analysis with fpgas, in proc. ieee symposium on field-programmable custom computing machines - fccm'09, 2009. g. shi, j. enos, m. showerman, v. kindratenko, on testing gpu memory for hard and soft errors, in proc. symposium on application accelerators in high-performance computing – saahpc'09, 2009. v. kindratenko, j. enos, g. shi, m. showerman, g. arnold, j. stone, j. phillips, w. hwu, gpu clusters for high-performance computing, in proc. workshop on parallel programming on accelerator clusters, ieee international conference on cluster computing, 2009. other publications d. buell, t. el-ghazawi, k. gaj, v. kindratenko, high-performance reconfigurable computing, guest editors’ introduction, ieee computer, vol. 40, no. 3, pp. 27-31, 2007. v. kindratenko, d. buell, reconfigurable systems summer institute 2007, guest editorial, parallel computing, vol. 34, no. 4-5, pp. 199-200, 2008. v. kindratenko, g. thiruvathukal, s. gottlieb, high-performance computing applications on novel architectures, guest editors’ introduction, ieee/aif computing in science and engineering, vol. 10, no. 6, pp. 13-15, 2008. v. kindratenko, r. wilhelmson, r. brunner, t. martinez, w. hwu, high-performance computing with accelerators, guest editors’ introduction, ieee/aif computing in science and engineering, vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 12-16, 2010. d. bader, d. kaeli, v. kindratenko, special issue on high-performance computing with accelerators, guest editor’s introduction, ieee transactions on parallel and distributed systems, vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 3-6, 2011. v. kindratenko, scientific computing with gpus, guest editors’ introduction, ieee/aif computing in science and engineering, vol. 14, no. 3, 2012. v. kindratenko, g. peterson, application accelerators in hpc, editorial introduction, parallel computing, vol. 38, no. 8, p. 343, 2012. patents v. kindratenko and r. fenwick, cuts removal system for triangulated cad models, us patent 6,744,434, june 1, 2004. v. kindratenko and r. fenwick, system and method for hidden object removal, us patent 6,897,863, may 24, 2005. r. hornbaker, v. kindratenko, and d. pointer, method for tracking grain, us patent 7,047,103, may 16, 2006. r. hornbaker, v. kindratenko, and d. pointer, tracking device for grain, us patent 7,162,328, january 9, 2007. r. hornbaker, v. kindratenko, and d. pointer, system for tracking grain, us patent 7,511,618 b2, march 31, 2009. magazine articles s. luo and v. kindratenko, hands-on with ibm visual insights, computing in science & engineering, vol. 22, no. 5, pp. 108-112, sept.-oct. 2020. r. venkatakrishnan, a. misra and v. kindratenko, high-level synthesis-based approach for accelerating scientific codes on fpgas, computing in science & engineering, vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 104-109, 1 july-aug. 2020. v. kindratenko, c. steffen, r. brunner, accelerating scientific applications with reconfigurable computing, scientific programming department, ieee/aif computing in science and engineering, vol. 9, no. 5, pp. 70-77, 2007. v. kindratenko, novel computing architectures, inaugural novel architectures department article, ieee/aif computing in science and engineering, 2009. g. shi, v. kindratenko, f. pratas, p. trancoso, m. gshwind, application acceleration with the cell broadband engine, novel architectures department article, ieee/aif computing in science and engineering, vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 76-81, 2010. v. kindratenko, p. trancoso, trends in high-performance computing, novel architectures department article, ieee/aif computing in science and engineering, vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 92-95, 2011. journal editorships associate editor, international journal of reconfigurable computing (ijrc), 2007-present department editor, ieee/aif computing in science and engineering, novel architectures department, 2009-present conferences organized or chaired international workshop on the application of machine learning techniques to computational fluid dynamics and solid mechanics simulations and analysis (cfdml) symposium on application accelerators in high performance computing (saahpc) international workshop on high-performance reconfigurable computing technology and applications (hprcta) professional societies senior member, the association for computing (acm) senior member, the institute of electrical and electronics engineers (ieee) service on department committees curriculum committee, ece department service on college committees it governance education working group, college of engineering service to federal and state government doe proposal review panel nsf proposal review panel teaching honors list of teachers ranked as excellent by their students, summer 2015, fall 2015, sprint 2016, summer 2017, fall 2018, fall 2019 research honors src award for excellence in reconfigurable computing (2007) other honors outstanding service award , 9 th acs/ieee international conference on computer systems and applications, 2011 courses taught - last four years cs 225 - data structures cs 483 - applied parallel programming cse 408 - applied parallel programming ece 120 - introduction to computing ece 220 - computer systems & programming ece 408 - applied parallel programming ece 425 - intro to vlsi system design ece 498 - iot and cognitive computing related news load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');