karrie karahalios
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty karrie karahalios karrie karahalios professor (217) 265-6841 kkarahal@illinois.edu 4228 siebel center for comp sci for more information uiuc research group home page karrie g. karahalios's home page education ph.d., media arts and sciences, massachusetts institute of technology, 2004. academic positions affiliate professor, unit for criticism & interpretive theory, university of illinois, 2018-present affiliate professor, electrical and computer engineering, university of illinois, 2018-present professor, department of computer science, university of illinois, 2017-present affiliate professor, coordinated science laboratory, university of illinois, 2013-present co-director and founder, center for people and infrastructures, coordinated science laboratory, university of illinois, 2011-present berkman fellow, berkman center for internet and society, harvard university affiliate professor, school of library and information science, university of illinois, june 2008-present research areas artificial intelligence interactive computing selected articles in journals j. kulshrestha, m. eslami, j. messias, m.b. zafar, s. ghosh, k.p. gummadi, and k. karahalios. search bias quantification: investigating political bias in social media and web search. information retrieval journal, pp.1-40. 2018. mariana aparicio betancourt, laura s. dethorne, karrie karahalios, jennifer g. kim. skin conductance as an in situ marker for emotional arousal in children with neurodevelopmental communication impairments: methodological considerations and clinical implications. acm transactions on accessible computing (taccess), volume 9, issue 3. february 2017. christian sandvig, kevin hamilton, karrie karahalios, cedric langbort. when the algorithm itself is a racist: 
diagnosing ethical harm in the basic components of software. international journal of communication (ijoc). 2016. karrie karahalios and tony bergstrom.  social mirrors as social signals:  transforming audio into graphics.  ieee computer graphics and applications. volume:29, issue: 5. september/october 2009. pp.22-32. articles in conference proceedings silas hsu, kristen vaccaro, yue yin, aimee rickman, karrie karahalios. awareness, navigation, and use of feed control settings online. proceedings of the acm conference on human factors in computing systems (chi), 2020.  (acceptance rate: 23.8%) ha-kyung kong and karrie karahalios. facilitating parent-clinician communication on developmental delays through visualizations. proceedings of the acm conference on human factors in computing systems (chi), 2020.  (acceptance rate: 23.8%) joshua asplund, motahhare eslami, hari sudaram, christian sandvig, karrie karahalios. auditing race and gender discrimination in online housing markets. international aaai conference on web and social media (icwsm). 2020. d. lee, j. lee, t. siddiqui, j. kim, k. karahalios, a. parameswaran. you can’t always sketch what you want: understanding sensemaking in visual query systems. vast’19 at vis: ieee int’l conf. on visual analytics science & technology, vancouver, canada, 2019. m. eslami, s. r. krishna kumaran, c. sandvig, and k. karahalios. communicating algorithmic process in online behavioral advertising. proceedings of the acm conference on human factors in computing systems (chi), 2018.  (acceptance rate: 25.7%) k. vaccaro, d. huang, m. eslami, c. sandvig, k. hamilton, and k. karahalios. the illusion of control: placebo effects of control settings. proceedings of the acm conference on human factors in computing systems (chi), 2018.  (acceptance rate: 25.7%) h. kong, z. liu, and k. karahalios. frames and slants in titles of visualizations on controversial topics. proceedings of the acm conference on human factors in computing systems (chi), 2018. (acceptance rate: 25.7%) s. dey, k. karahalios, w.t. fu. effects of socially stigmatized crowdfunding campaigns in shaping opinions. proceedings of the acm conference on human factors in computing systems (chi), 2018. (acceptance rate: 25.7%) honorable mention. motahhare eslami, kristen vaccaro, karrie karahalios, kevin hamilton. “be careful; things can be worse than they appear”: understanding biased algorithms and users’ behavior around them in rating platforms. international aaai conference on web and social media (icwsm 2017). (acceptance rate:  14%) mary pietrowicz, mark hasegawa-johnson, karrie karahalios. discovering dimensions of perceived vocal expression in semi-structured, unscripted oral history accounts.  the 42nd ieee international conference on acoustics, speech and signal processing (icassp). 2017.  (selected for oral presentation). juhi kulshrestha, motahhare eslami, johnnatan messias, muhhammad bilal zafar, saptarshi ghosh, krishna gummadi, karrie karahalios. quantifying search bias: investigating sources of bias for political searches in social media. proceedings of the acm conference on computer supported cooperative work (cscw), 2017. 15pp. (acceptance rate: 34.5%) jennifer kim, kristen vaccaro, karrie karahalios, hwajung hong. “not by money alone”: social support opportunities in medical crowdfunding campaigns.  proceedings of the acm conference on computer supported cooperative work (cscw), 2017.12pp. (acceptance rate: 34.5%) kristen vaccaro, sunaya shivakumar, ziqiao  ding, ranjitha kumar, and karrie karahalios. the elements of fashion style. acm symposium on user interface software and technology (uist), 2016. (acceptance rate: 20.6%) gary soeller, karrie karahalios, christian sandvig and christo wilson. mapwatch: detecting and monitoring international border personalization on online maps. world wide web conference (www), 2016. 12pp. (acceptance rate: 15.8%) j. kim, h. kong, k. karahalios, w. fu, and h. hong. the power of collective endorsements: credibility factors in medical crowdfunding campaigns. proceedings of the acm conference on human factors in computing systems (chi),  2016.  (acceptance rate: 23.5%) m. eslami, k. karahalios, c. sandvig, a. rickman, and k. hamilton. first i “like'' it then i hide it: folk theories of social feeds. proceedings of the acm conference on human factors in computing systems (chi),  2016. 12pp. (acceptance rate: 23.5%) m. eslami, a. rickman, k. vaccaro, a. aleyasen, a. vuong, k. karahalios, k. hamilton, and c. sandvig. i always assumed that i wasn't really that close to [her]: reasoning about invisible algorithms in the news feed. proceedings of the acm conference on human factors in computing systems (chi), 2015. pp. 153-162. (acceptance rate: 23%)  best paper award. c. sandvig, k. hamilton, k. karahalios, & c. langbort. auditing algorithms: a research method for detecting discrimination on internet platforms. paper presented to the 64th annual meeting of the international communication association, preconference on data and discrimination, seattle, washington, usa. may 2014. k. hamilton, k. karahalios, c. sandvig, and m. eslami. a path to understanding the effects of algorithm awareness, alt.chi: extended abstracts of the acm conference on human factors in computing systems (chi). 2014. (acceptance rate: 37.5%) c. sandvig, k. hamilton, k. karahalios, & c. langbort. re-centering the algorithm. paper presented to the symposium on governing algorithms: computation, automation, and control, new york university, new york, ny, usa. may 2013. (invited). j. kim, m. snodgrass, m. pietrowicz, k. karahalios, j. halle. beda: visual analytics for behavioral and physiological data. workshop on visual analytics in healthcare (vahc), 2013. tony bergstrom, andrew harris and karrie karahalios. encouraging initiative in the classroom with anonymous feedback. proceedings of ifip human-computer interaction (interact), 2011. (acceptance rate: 28%) eric gilbert and karrie karahalios.  widespread worry and the stock market. aaai conference on weblogs and social media (icwsm), 2010.  (acceptance rate: 18%) karrie karahalios and tony bergstrom.  leveraging people and computers for nlp. workshop on analysis and design of algorithms for interactive machine learning, 23rd annual conference on neural information processing systems (nips), 2009. eric gilbert and karrie karahalios. predicting tie strength with social media. proceedings of the acm conference on human factors in computing systems (chi), 2009. (acceptance rate: 24.5%)   best paper award. tony bergstrom and karrie karahalios. conversation clusters: grouping conversation topics through human-computer dialog. proceedings of the acm conference on human factors in computing systems (chi), 2009. (acceptance rate: 24.5%) eric gilbert, karrie karahalios and christian sandvig. the network in the garden: an empirical analysis of social media in rural life. proceedings of chi 2008. 10 pages. (acceptance rate: 22%) best paper award. joshua hailpern, karrie karahalios, laura dethorne, james halle. encouraging speech and vocalization in children with autistic spectrum disorder. workshop on technology in mental health . chi 2008. research honors acm distinguished member, 2019. university scholar, 2019 fiddler fellowship, 2019 dean’s award for excellence in research, 2017 conference on human factors in computing systems (chi) best paper award, 2017 conference on human factors in computing systems (chi) best paper award, 2015 university of illinois engineering council outstanding advising award, 2014 alfred p. sloan research fellowship, 2010 berkman faculty fellowship, 2009-2010 c.w. gear outstanding junior faculty award, 2009 conference on human factors in computing systems (chi) best paper award, 2009 a. richard newton breakthrough research award, microsoft research 2008 conference on human factors in computing systems (chi) best paper award, 2008 public service honors university of illinois public engagement award, 2015 courses taught - last four years cs 467 - social visualization cs 567 - social spaces cs 591 - just infrastructures cs 598 - social (media + signals) cs 598 - social spaces on the internet related news cs faculty among researchers awarded jump arches funding news | march 3, 2021 nsf grants provide $2.25 million to support new research projects launched in october news | november 17, 2020 five cs graduate students welcomed into siebel scholars family news | september 23, 2020 abdelzaher, chan, karahalios, and sundaram honored by acm news | december 18, 2019 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');