sheldon howard jacobson
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty sheldon howard jacobson sheldon howard jacobson founder professor in engineering (217) 244-7275 shj@illinois.edu 3224 siebel center for comp sci for more information sheldon jacobson's web page. biography sheldon h. jacobson is a founder professor of computer science, director of the simulation and optimization laboratory, and founding director of the bed time research institute at the university of illinois at urbana-champaign.  he holds appointments in industrial and enterprise systems engineering, electrical and computer engineering, mathematics, statistics, and the college of medicine.  he has a b.sc. and m.sc. in mathematics from mcgill university and a ph.d. in operations research from cornell university.  he has served on the faculties at case western reserve university (weatherhead school of management, 1988-1993), virginia tech (industrial and systems engineering, 1993-1999), and the university of illinois (1999-present). he has published 186 peer-reviewed articles, 11 book chapters, 50 conference proceedings, 45 professional and editorial publications, and delivered over 510 presentation, seminars and posters at conferences, universities, and research laboratories around the world.  he has directed 23 ph.d. dissertations and been awarded over $5m of research support from the national science foundation and the air force office of scientific research. as director of the bed time research institute, he spearheaded the creation of two research videos (“a healthy collaboration: pediatric immunization and operations research”, “aviation security: researching the risk.”) and launched four websites, all designed to communicate the value of basic research through broader impact activities, and promulgate stem activities for enhancing and growing a technically literate citizenry.  (http://bracketodds.cs.illinois.edu,  , http://electionanalytics.cs.illinois.edu, http://drivingobesity.cs.illinois.edu, http://redistricting.cs.illinois.edu). he has made several seminal research contributions, all focusing on applying operations research and optimization-based artificial intelligence to address societal problems of national interest.  he launched the research field, aviation security analytics, demonstrating how probabilistic models, optimization, and artificial intelligence can be used to improve the performance of aviation security systems.   his research on multi-level aviation security passenger screening at airports was the precursor to risk-based security, providing the foundational concepts that informed the design and implementation of tsa precheck© (see the presentation he delivered on 3 october 2003 to the tsa outlining the benefits and foundations for differential passenger screening; see also the video).  his contributions have been recognized with numerous awards, including a 2003 guggenheim fellowship and the 2018 informs impact prize, given biennially to recognize widespread impact of operations research.   his research on the design of pediatric vaccine formularies introduced the use of operations research in the pediatric immunization domain.  his research on bridging obesity, transportation, and fuel consumption established the impact of transportation on obesity, providing the foundation for non-medical obesity interventions based on modes of transportation.     his research on computational redistricting demonstrates how optimization-based ai can be used to combat gerrymandering by creating a transparent environment for designing and evaluating district maps. his research has been widely reported and communicated in the national press, including the washington post, the chicago tribune, the los angeles times, and the boston globe, editorialized in the new york times, and discussed in business week, forbes, kiplinger, and the osgood files on cbs radio.  he has appeared on the street signs (cnbc), the closing bell (cnbc), weekends with alex witt (msnbc), washington post radio, cbs this morning, cbc canada news (television and radio), and bbc world news (television and radio).  his views have been published as opinion-editorials and letters in the washington post, quartz, cnn opinion, inside higher ed, the wall street journal, and the chicago tribune. he has been recognized with numerous awards, including a guggenheim fellowship (2003), the informs impact prize (2018), the iise david f. baker distinguished research award (2017), iise award for technical innovation in industrial engineering (2010, 2013), the aviation security research award (aviation security international) (2002), the iie outstanding publication award (2009), the award for excellence in the teaching of operations research (iise operations research division) (2011), and runner-up for the christopher columbus homeland security award (transportation and border security) (2010).  he is an elected fellow of the american association for the advancement of science (aaas, 2020), the institute for operations research and the management sciences (informs, 2013) and the institute of industrial and systems engineers (iise, 2011).  he has also received several best paper and poster awards, including the 2019 best service science paper for his research on computational redistricting. his leadership and expertise have been used by both government and professional societies.  he briefed personnel within the office of science and technology policy (in the executive office of president george w. bush) (august 2002, washington, dc) on issues related to aviation security and assessing the cost and benefit of checked baggage screening strategies.  he briefed the advisory committee on immunization practice (acip) on a web-site he co-developed for designing optimal pediatric vaccine formularies (october 2001, atlanta, georgia.)  he served on committees for the national academies, including the national research council committee on airport passenger screening: backscatter x-ray machines (2013-2015), the national academy of medicine (nam) standing committee for the centers for disease control and prevention division of strategic national stockpile (2015-2017), and a workshop on medical-product shortages: effects on patient health and opportunities to predict, prevent, and respond to them (2018).  he led the nsf-funded workshop (may 2016, arlington, va), setting a broader impacts innovation roadmap, in creating new pathways for enhancing broader impacts in the engineering directorate at the nsf. he served as the (elected) treasurer for the institute for operations research and the management sciences (informs) (2015-2016) and as a program director in the division of civil, mechanical, and manufacturing innovation at the national science foundation (2012-2014).  he was an invited panelist at the 2019 informs government and analytics summit. research areas theory and algorithms courses taught - last four years cs 481 - adv stochastic process & appl cs 481 - stochastic processes & applic cs 482 - simulation cs 498 - special topics ie 410 - adv stochastic process & appl ie 410 - stochastic processes & applic ie 413 - simulation related news covid-19 vaccine exemptions make no sense news | september 6, 2021 time is ripe for computational redistricting to expose gerrymandering news | august 16, 2021 unvaccinated workers could end up paying $50 more for health insurance - per paycheck news | august 13, 2021 op-ed: every covid infection is an opportunity for virus mutation. we can reduce the risk. news | august 9, 2021 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');