staff positions | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} #hero::before { background-image: url(//ws.engr.illinois.edu/sitemanager/viewphoto.aspx?id=16099&s=1600) !important; } skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about open positions staff positions current staff positions digital content strategist - apply by august 9 graduate program specialist & academic adviser - apply by september 13 learn more about illinois computer science view latest job openings at illinois digital content strategist digital content strategist department of computer science the grainger college of engineering university of illinois urbana-champaign apply here! the department of computer science (cs) at the grainger college of engineering seeks applicants for the position of digital content strategist to develop and implement strategic digital communications and public relations activities as an integral member of the cs communications & constituent engagement team.  this position is responsible for strategically concepting, designing, and implementing approaches to leverage all of our communication channels to better share stories that demonstrate the comprehensive excellence of the faculty, staff, students, and alumni of the department. the volume of high-quality digital content, especially on the department website and social media channels, will be a primary focus of this position, which includes utilizing the new website content management system (site manager) to its fullest capabilities. the university of illinois is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer that recruits and hires qualified candidates without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, national origin, disability or veteran status. for more information, visit http://go.illinois.edu/eeo . major duties and responsibilities: digital content development and content management for web and social develop and implement a strategic plan for the department’s web presences, such as its main website, faculty pages, research group and lab pages, in cooperation with leadership and communications staff, and based upon analytics, audience analysis situations, content/subject area, and intended outcomes. lead efforts to take created written content and further design and develop it for use in multiple online formats. utilizing aspects of design and technology tools, such as graphic design, web design, social media, electronic newsletters, digital signage, graphics, illustrations, and infographics to create multimedia that is cohesive and supports immersive digital storytelling experiences. use skills and experience to create materials that visually communicate with the identified target audience, e.g. using infographics and illustrations. facilitate strategy sessions, focus group sessions, and user tests. manage all aspects of usability evaluations and analysis to summarize web usage data and report key learnings. prototype and implement website designs using content management tools. work with partners, including grainger engineering web services, university of illinois web services, other groups on campus, and outside vendors to establish and update website content. work with marketing and communications team to identify promotional strategies by having an understanding of digital marketing and the ability to manage and report on marketing campaign tracking, including sources across multiple channels. monitor and make recommendations for continual website improvements, including reviewing website content, and using analytics and analysis to make informed, strategic content recommendations/decisions. ensure that all websites adhere to accessibility laws as well as good usability practices. design design digital marketing materials, including information graphics, social media graphics, powerpoint presentations, and digital signage, plus designs or collaborates with staff on complimentary print materials. maintain college and university brand standards across materials. in accordance with university of illinois, grainger college of engineering, and department of computer science branding guidelines and style guides. collaborate with outside vendors. documentation, training, and support provide training and support for department content editors. establish documentation for websites and publishing platforms, to include: quality standards, reviews, and formalized content procedures in accordance with university of illinois, grainger college of engineering, and department of computer science branding guidelines and style guides. investigate and evaluate new standards and technologies suitable for department needs. assume additional appropriate duties to further the mission of the department required qualifications: bachelor’s degree in public relations, advertising, communications, or a related field. three years of professional work experience in communications, promotions, public relations, advertising, or event planning that included web design, marketing, and/or web content management. experience implementing and using content management systems, such as drupal and/or wordpress, to deliver public websites. preferred qualifications: experience working in or with higher education, especially in stem fields. proficiency in adobe suite, wordpress, and webtools. experience effectively communicating technical information with clients. highly qualified candidates will possess: excellent organizational skills. ability to work harmoniously with faculty, staff, and students from a wide variety of disciplines. proven ability to complete small projects independently and work as a member of a team on larger projects. understanding of accessibility standards and laws. solid knowledge of website analytics tools (e.g., google analytics.) strong analytical skills and data-driven thinking. appointment information: this is a full-time civil service publicity-promotion associate position appointed on a 12-month service basis. the expected start date is as soon as possible after the deadline. to apply: applications must be received by august 9, 2021 .  apply for this position using the “apply for position” button below. if you have not applied before, you must create your candidate profile at https://jobs.illinois.edu/ .  if you already have a profile, you will be redirected to that existing profile via email notification. to complete the application process: submit the staff vacancy application. submit the voluntary self-identification of disability forms. upload your cover letter, resume (months and years of employment must be included), and academic credentials including bachelor's degree or higher included (unofficial transcripts or diploma may be acceptable) and names/contact information for three references. in order to be considered as a transfer candidate, you must apply for this position using the “apply for position” button below.  applications not submitted through this website will not be considered.  for further information about this specific position, contact denise corray ( decorray@illinois.edu ).  for questions about the application process, please contact 217-333-2137 . the university of illinois conducts criminal background checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of a contingent offer.  convictions are not a bar to employment. other pre-employment assessments may be required, depending on the classification of civil service employment. the university of illinois system requires candidates selected for hire to disclose any documented finding of sexual misconduct or sexual harassment and to authorize inquiries to current and former employers regarding findings of sexual misconduct or sexual harassment. for more information, visit policy on consideration of sexual misconduct in prior employment .” as a qualifying federal contractor, the university of illinois system uses e-verify to verify employment eligibility . the university of illinois must also comply with applicable federal export control laws and regulations and, as such, reserves the right to employ restricted party screening procedures for applicants. graduate program specialist & academic adviser graduate program specialist & academic adviser department of computer science university of illinois at urbana-champaign apply here! the department of computer science at the grainger college of engineering seeks applicants for the position of graduate program specialist & academic adviser to support the advising and administrative operations of the department's graduate programs, with primary responsibility for the online graduate programs. the university of illinois is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer that recruits and hires qualified candidates without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, national origin, disability or veteran status. for more information, visit http://go.illinois.edu/eeo . major duties and responsibilities: advising: advise applicants and prospective applicants to the graduate programs in computer science in matters pertaining to admissibility and application procedures. maintain familiarity with departmental and university admissions policies and procedures and ensure graduate program policies are in compliance with those of the university. communicate with admitted graduate students to facilitate the admission process. advise students on curriculum, registration, and degree requirements and work with other academic advisors and staff as needed to meet advising needs. implement processes to ensure timely communication of university announcements and information to graduate students. program administration: assist with all aspects of processing graduate applications. assume responsibility for implementing graduate recruiting and orientation activities, and implementing additional special events that are organized by the grad office. communicate with on-campus and external partners in the daily operations of the graduate programs. develop and maintain data sets pertinent to the department’s graduate programs. perform additional duties to further the mission of the department. required qualifications: bachelor’s degree. at least two years of experience in providing student academic support in a higher education setting. experience working with students from diverse backgrounds. experience working independently, and as part of a team, while meeting multiple deadlines. preferred qualifications: master's degree in higher education or related field. experience working with multiple teams, including external partners and vendors. highly qualified candidates will possess: ability to organize, prioritize, and manage diverse activities. must be highly organized and be able to work under multiple deadlines. strong interpersonal, written and oral communication skills. ability to use technical tools to communicate with students and manage a large volume of student records. appointment information: this is a full-time, benefits-eligible academic professional position appointed on a 12-month service basis.  the expected start date is as soon as possible after the closing date.  applicants may be interviewed before the closing date; however, no hiring decision will be made until after that date.  salary is commensurate with experience and qualifications. to apply for this position, please create your candidate profile at http://jobs.illinois.edu and upload your cover letter, resume, and names/contact information for three references as a single pdf file by september 13, 2021.  full consideration will be given to complete applications received by the closing date.  for further information regarding application procedures, contact denise corray ( decorray@illinois.edu ). the university of illinois conducts criminal background checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of a contingent offer. convictions are not a bar to employment. the university of illinois system requires candidates selected for hire to disclose any documented finding of sexual misconduct or sexual harassment and to authorize inquiries to current and former employers regarding findings of sexual misconduct or sexual harassment. for more information, visit policy on consideration of sexual misconduct in prior employment . as a qualifying federal contractor, the university of illinois system uses e-verify to verify employment eligibility . the university of illinois must also comply with applicable federal export control laws and regulations and, as such, reserves the right to employ restricted party screening procedures for applicants. join illinois’ world-class cs department illinois computer science includes 78 tenure track faculty members,  29 teaching and research faculty, and 60 academic and research staff and professionals, and enrolls over 1,900 undergraduate students, over 1,800 graduate students, among them over 400 phd students. the department features 20 ieee fellows, 17 acm fellows, and 40 nsf career award winners. learn more about illinois computer science contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');