lawrence angrave
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty lawrence angrave lawrence angrave teaching professor, gies rc evans innovation fellow, citl fellow (217) 333-1424 angrave@illinois.edu 2217 siebel center for comp sci undergraduate research opportunities lawrence provides undergraduate research opportunities through classtranscribe project and scribe augmented reality project. summer internships, independent study, senior thesis and other credit earning activities are possible. research areas computers and education books authored or co-authored (original editions) l. c. angrave. system programming, a crowd-sourced wiki-book experiment, 2014 - present l. c. angrave. dynamic visualizer. wolfram publishing, 1998 selected articles in journals r.w. crues, g.m. henricks, m. perry, s. bhat, c. j. anderson, n. shaik, & l angrave.  "how do gender, learning goals, and forum participation predict persistence in a computer science mooc?" acm transactions on computing education, 18(4), 2017 articles in conference proceedings jawad m., javid t., lualdi c., angrave l. (2021) scribear: design and use of augmented-reality captioning for inclusive education access. proceedings of the asee-il-in conference, urbana, may 2021 zhang z., sui r., angrave l., mahipal c., kooper r., bhavya b., huang y. (2021) how students search video captions to learn: an analysis of search terms and behavioral timing data. proceedings of the asee conference, long beach ca, july, 2021 (submitted) phrabhu n, ferreira r., bhat s, perry m, angrave l (2021) study partners matter: impacts on inclusion and outcomes. proceedings of the asee conference, long beach ca, july, 2021 (accepted) amos, j.r., zhang, z., angrave, l., liu, h., shen, y. , vawani, k. (2021) a udl-based large-scale study on the needs of students with disabilities in engineering courses. proceedings of the asee conference, long beach ca, july, 2021 angrave l., jensen k., zhang z., mahipal c., mussulman m., schmitz c., baird, r., liu h., sui r., wu m., kooper r. (2020). improving student accessibility, equity, course performance, and lab skills: how introduction of classtranscribe is changing engineering education at the university of illinois” proceedings of asee annual virtual conference 2020. mussulman, d., jensen, k., amos, j. r., angrave, l. c., flanagan, k., fagen-ulmschneider, w., ... & osborn, j. (2020, june). measuring impact: student and instructor experience using an online queue. in asee annual conference and exposition, conference proceedings (vol. 2020, p. 1005). jay, v., henricks, g., bosch, n., perry, m., bhat, s. p., williams-dobosz, d., angrave, l. c., & shaik, n. (2020). online discussion forum help-seeking behaviors of students underrepresented in stem. in m. gresalfi & i. s. horn (eds.), proceedings of the 14th international conference on learning sciences (icls) 2020, vol 2. (pp. 809-810). nashville, tn: international society of the learning sciences angrave, l., zhang z., henricks g., mahipal c. (2019). who benefits? positive learner outcomes from behavioral analytics of online lecture video viewing using classtranscribe. sigcse 2020, portland, or: acm bosch, n., huang, e., angrave, l., & perry, m. (2019). modeling improvement for underrepresented minorities in online stem education. in proceedings of the 27th conference on user modeling, adaptation and personalization (umap 2019) (pp. 327–335). new york, ny: acm mahipal, c., & angrave, l., & xie, y., & chatterjee, b., & wang, h., & qian, z. (2019, june), “what did i just miss?!” presenting classtranscribe, an automated live-captioning and text-searchable lecture video system, and related pedagogical best practices paper presented at 2019 asee annual conference & exposition , tampa, florida. r. sharrock, l. angrave, e. hamonic. "weblinux: a scalable in-browser and client-side linux and ide." learning at scale (2018) n. bosch, r. w. crues, g. m. henricks, m. perry, l. angrave, n. shaik, s. bhat & c. j.anderson,  (2018) "modeling key differences in underrepresented students' interactions with an online stem course." proceeding of the technology, mind, and society conference r.w. crues, n, bosch, m. perry, l. angrave, n. shaik, & s. bhat,(2018). refocusing the lens on engagement in moocs.proceedings of the fifth annual acm conference on learning at scale. new york j. ren, m. hasegawa-johnson, l angrave. "classtranscribe: a new tool with new educational opportunities for student crowdsourced college lecture transcription." slate 2015 -- sixth workshop on speech and language technology in education, september 4--5, 2015, leipzig, germany, proceedings. p.179-180 pending articles amos j, hongye l, zhilin z, vanwani k, angrave l (2021) a udl-based large-scale study on the needs of students with disabilities in engineering courses, 2021 asee conference proceedings, new educator section bhat s, angrave l, perry m "study partners matter: impacts on equity, diversity, inclusion and outcomes" 2021 asee conference proceedings amos j, hongye l, zhilin z, vanwani, k, angrave l(2021) qualitative analysis of college students’ perception of multiple representations and modalities in courses. 2021 asee illinois-indiana regional conference (submitted) zhang, b., sun., t., anderson, c.j., angrave, l.c., & drasgow, f. (2021). disentangling substantive responses from faking: statistical and practical performance of the bayesian retrieve-edit-select model. in t.sun & f.drasgow (co-chairs), item response theory iii: new updates in research and applications.36th annual conference of the society for industrial and organizational psychology proceedings (submitted) zhang z, angrave l et al (2021) "understanding students' text search behaviors when learning from stem video lectures", asee conference proceedings 2021 (submitted) jawad m., lualdi c., angrave l. (2021) "design and use of augmented-reality captioning for inclusive education access", 2021 asee illinois-indiana regional conference proceedings (submitted) service on university committees technology accessibility review committee 2019-2021 service on department committees cs liaison to university of washington access computing group (2020 - present) broadening participation committee (2019 - present) chair of  academic appeals committee (2019-present) cs promotion committee for specialized faculty (2018  - 2020) undergraduate and graduate student awards committee (2015 - 2018) service on campus committees campus-wide caliper event data acquisition web service and faculty support (2019 - present) teaching honors center for innovation in teaching & learning (citl) faculty fellow (2019-2021) gies college of business rc evans innovation fellow (2019-2020) computer science fisher award (2018) computer science distinguished educator award (2014) illinois student senate teaching excellence award (2012) campus award for excellence in undergraduate teaching (2012) everitt award for teaching excellence (2011) collins award for innovative teaching (2011) rose award for teaching excellence (2009) courses taught - last four years cs 125 - intro to computer science cs 199 - cs 241 honors cs 199 - de-bug your brain cs 199 - elements of game design cs 199 - undergraduate open seminar cs 241 - system programming cs 296 - honors course cs 498 - virtual reality related news several illinois cs research projects result in best paper awards news | march 15, 2021 cs professors prepare to enhance engineering teaching through siip grants news | november 20, 2020 online school challenges ui transcription software news | october 28, 2020 illinois cs teaching inspires fisher to extend support for award, and add honors for tas, cas news | march 12, 2019 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');