adam bates
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty adam bates adam bates assistant professor (217) 300-4653 batesa@illinois.edu 4306 siebel center for comp sci for more information secure & transparent systems laboratory adambates.org education ph.d., computer science, university of florida, 2016. 
thesis: "designing and leveraging trustworthy provenance-aware systems."
advisor: kevin butler m.sc, computer science, university of oregon, 2012. thesis: "detecting compute cloud co-residency with network flow watermarking techniques." advisor: kevin butler b.sc., computer science, university of maryland, 2006. research interests systems security system auditing, data provenance iot/mobile security & privacy network & communications security research areas operating systems security and privacy selected articles in journals adam bates and wajih ul hassan. "can data provenance put an end to the data breach?" ieee security & privacy magazine. july 9, 2019. deepak kumar, riccardo paccagnella, paul murley, eric hennenfent, joshua mason, adam bates, and michael bailey. "emerging threats in internet of things voice services." ieee security & privacy magazine. july 9, 2019. articles in conference proceedings nick roessler, lucas atayde, imani palmer, derrick mckee, jai pandey, vasileios p. kemerlis, mathias payer, adam bates, andre dehon, jonathan m. smith, and nathan dautenhahn.
"automated least-privilege analysis." 24th international symposium on research in attacks, intrusions and defenses (raid'21). donostia / san sebastian, spain. october 6, 2021. benjamin e. ujcich, samuel jero, richard skowyra, adam bates, william h. sanders, and hamed okhravi. "causal analysis for software-defined networking attacks." 30th usenix security symposium (security'21). august 13, 2021. (acceptance rate = 18.8%) wajih ul hassan, ding li, kangkook jee, xiao yu, kexuan (klaus) zou, dawei wang, zhengzhang chen, zhichun li, junghwan rhee, jiaping gui, and adam bates. "this is why we can't cache nice things: lightning-fast threat hunting using suspicion-based hierarchical storage." 36th annual computer security applications conference. december 7, 2020. (acceptance rate = 23.2%) noor michael, jaron mink, jason liu, sneha gaur, wajih ul hassan, and adam bates. "on the forensic validity of approximated audit logs."  36th annual computer security applications conference. december 7, 2020. (acceptance rate = 23.2%) arnav sankaran, pubali datta, and adam bates. "workflow integration alleviates identity and access management in serverless computing." 36th annual computer security applications conference. december 7, 2020. (acceptance rate = 23.2%) riccardo paccagnella, kevin liao, dave (jing) tian, and adam bates. "logging to the danger zone: race condition attacks and defenses on system audit frameworks." 27th acm conference on computer and communications security (ccs'20). november 9, 2020. (acceptance rate = 16.9%) benjamin e. ujcich, adam bates, and william h. sanders. "provenance for intent-based networking." 2020 ieee conference on network softwarization (netsoft '20). ghent, belgium. june 29, 2020. wajih ul hassan, adam bates, and daniel marino. "tactical provenance analysis for endpoint detection and response systems." 41st ieee symposium on security and privacy (oakland'20). san francisco, ca, usa. may 18, 2020. (acceptance rate = 12.3%) pubali datta, prabuddha kumar, amir rahmati, and adam bates. "valve: securing function workfows on serverless computing platforms." the web conference (www'20). taipei, taiwan. april 20, 2020. (acceptance rate=19.2%) wajih ul hassan, mohammad ali noureddine, pubali datta, and adam bates. "omegalog: high-fidelity attack investigation via transparent multi-layer log analysis." 27th isoc network and distributed system security symposium (ndss'20). san diego, ca, usa. february 25, 2020. (acceptance rate=17.4%) riccardo paccagnella, pubali datta, wajih ul hassan, adam bates, christopher fletcher, andrew miller, and dave tian. "custos: practical tamper-evident auditing of operating systems using trusted execution." 27th isoc network and distributed system security symposium (ndss'20). san diego, ca, usa. february 25, 2020. (acceptance rate=17.4%) xueyuan han, thomas pasquier, adam bates, james mickens, and margo seltzer. "unicorn: runtime provenance-based detector for advanced persistent threats." 27th isoc network and distributed system security symposium (ndss'20). san diego, ca, usa. february 25, 2020. (acceptance rate=17.4%) benjamin e. ujcich, samuel jero, richard skowyra, steven r. gomez, adam bates, william h. sanders, and hamed okhravi. "automated discovery of cross-plane event-based vulnerabilities in software-defined networking." 27th isoc network and distributed system security symposium (ndss'20). san diego, ca, usa. february 24, 2020. (acceptance rate=17.4%) qi wang, pubali datta, wei yang, si liu, carl gunter, and adam bates. "charting the attack surface of trigger-action iot platforms." 26th acm conference on computer and communications security (ccs'19). london, uk. november 11, 2019. (acceptance rate=16.2%) wajih ul hassan, shengjian guo, ding li, zhengzhang chen, kangkook jee, zhichun li, and adam bates. "nodoze: combatting threat alert fatigue with automated provenance triage." 26th isoc network and distributed system security symposium (ndss'19). san diego, ca, usa. february 24, 2019.  (acceptance rate=17.1%) benjamin e. ujcich, samuel jero, anne edmundson, qi wang, richard skowyra, james landry, adam bates, willam h. sanders, christina rita-notaru, and hamed okravi. "cross-app poisoning in software-defined networking."  25th acm conference on computer and communications security (ccs'18). toronto, ontario, canada. october 15, 2018.  (acceptance rate=16.6%) thomas pasquier, xueyuan han, thomas moyer, adam bates, olivier hermant, david eyers, jean bacon, and margo seltzer. "runtime analysis of whole-system provenance." 25th acm conference on computer and communications security (ccs'18). toronto, ontario, canada. october 15, 2018. (acceptance rate=16.6%) wajih ul hassan, saad hussain, and adam bates. "analysis of privacy protections in fitness tracking social networks -or- you can run, but can you hide?." 27th usenix security symposium (security'18). baltimore, md, usa. august 16, 2018. (acceptance rate=19.1%) deepak kumar, riccardo paccagnella, paul murley, eric hennenfent, joshua mason, adam bates, michael bailey. “skill squatting attacks on amazon alexa”. 27th usenix security symposium (security’18). baltimore, md, usa. august 15-17, 2018. (acceptance rate=19.1%.) tianyuan liu, avesta hojjati, adam bates and klara nahrstedt. “alidrone: enabling trust-worthy proof-of-alibi for commercial drone compliance”. 38th ieee international conference on distributed computing systems (icdcs’18). vienna, austria. july 2-6,2018. (acceptance rate=20.0%.) dave (jing) tian, nolen scaife, deepak kumar, michael bailey, adam bates, and kevin r. b. butler. “sok: ’plug & pray’ today – understanding usb insecurity in versions 1 through c”. 39th ieee symposium on security and privacy (oakland’18). san francisco, ca, usa. may 23, 2018. (acceptance rate=11.5%.) wajih ul hassan, mark lemay, nuraini aguse, adam bates, and thomas moyer. “towards scalable cluster auditing through grammatical inference over provenance graphs”. 25th isoc network and distributed system security symposium (ndss’18). san diego, ca, usa. feb 17, 2018. (acceptance rate=21.0%.) qi wang, wajih ul hassan, adam bates, and carl gunter. "fear and logging in the internet of things." 25th isoc network and distributed system security symposium (ndss'18).  san diego, ca, usa. february 17, 2018.  san diego, ca, usa. february 17, 2018. benjamin e. ujcich, andrew miller, adam bates, and william h. sanders. "towards an accountable software-defined networking architecture." 3rd ieee conference on network softwarization. bologna, italy. july 4, 2017. (acceptance rate=20.0%) adam bates, wajih ul hassan, kevin butler, alin dobra, bradley reaves, patrick cable, thomas moyer,and nabil schear. "transparent web service auditing via network provenance functions." 26th world wide web conference (www'17). perth, australia. april 6, 2017.  (acceptance rate=17.0%) research honors acm sigsac doctoral dissertation award runner-up (11/02/2017) courses taught - last four years cs 423 - operating systems design cs 461 - computer security i cs 563 - advanced computer security cs 598 - operating system security cse 423 - operating systems design ece 422 - computer security i ece 524 - advanced computer security related news illinois cs sends four participants, 28 faculty mentors to rising stars 2020 news | november 18, 2020 gunter, bates part of $10m effort to investigate a secure smart home news | june 12, 2020 phd student wajih ul hassan wins symantec fellowship to pursue security research news | april 8, 2019 hassan’s nodoze brings triage to security; phd student presents paper at ndss symposium news | february 18, 2019 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');