illinois cs papers earn top honors at recent conferences | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home news illinois cs papers earn top honors at recent conferences 8/21/2021 8:53:17 am cs faculty garnered four best or distinguished paper awards at prominent national and international conferences during the spring and summer of 2021, once again raising the profile of the department’s broad and impactful research. assistant professor dakshita khurana dakshita khurana’s paper “ one-way functions imply secure computation in a quantum world ” received a long plenary talk award at qip 2021, a premier international conference for theoretical quantum information research. only two papers out of 462 submissions received this recognition, which is equivalent to a best paper award. secure computation is a cryptography technology that allows collaborative data analysis without revealing any private information from individuals in the process. one of the goals of modern cryptography is to realize secure computation under the simplest possible cryptographic assumptions, which is difficult to attain with classical computing resources. however, researchers have discovered that quantum key distribution has opened up the tantalizing possibility of using quantum resources to enable secure computation assuming the existence of one-way functions. khurana and her co-authors—james bartusek (berkeley), andrea coladangelo (berkeley), and fermi ma (princeton)—showed in their paper that general-purpose secure computation can be realized assuming the existence of one-way functions and assuming a few simple quantum capabilities. their protocols use only simple quantum communication as in the quantum key distribution protocols of bennett and brassard, making them amenable to deployment in the foreseeable future as quantum communication becomes a reality. professor hari sundaram cs professor hari sundaram received a best article award from the journal of interactive advertising for the paper “ computationally analyzing social media text for topics: a primer for advertising researchers .” the paper was co-authored by colleagues from the u of i and university of georgia advertising departments. an essential component of all organizations’ marketing and communication strategy is understanding how social media users talk about their brand. however, using the algorithms to identify topics of social media conversations requires a technical background. smaller organizations often lack the technical expertise or large budgets to sift through the enormous data sets generated by social media posts. they find identifying actionable knowledge from the data complex. cs alumnus joseph yun (bs cs '01), a research professor in the illinois gies college of business, was first author of the article, which provides an accessible introduction to computational techniques developed to analyze document collections for topics. methods include text preprocessed summarization, phrase mining, topic modeling, supervised machine-learned text classification, and semantic topic tagging. the article presents the advantages and possible challenges of using each technique. by applying the computational techniques on a real-world twitter dataset of a brand, the authors explain how the techniques perform and how they would compare against the work of a human analyst. the paper also provides a reference matrix that summarizes each analysis method, explaining when a company or organization wants to use each technique and an overview of tools to execute each technique. illinois cs researchers in the programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering area recently won two acm sigsoft distinguished paper awards at esteemed international conferences. these awards are presented to fewer than 10 percent of all the papers accepted at an acm sigsoft-sponsored conference. professor darko marinov professor tao xie assistant professor tianyin xu associate professor lingming zhang cs graduate student runxiang (sam) cheng received an acm sigsoft distinguished paper award at the international symposium on software testing and analysis ( issta’21 ). his “ test-case prioritization for configuration testing” paper demonstrated an efficient way to test configuration changes for devops-based continuous deployment. modern cloud systems (e.g., facebook and google) perform configuration changes hundreds of times a day and therefore need a fast and reliable way to check those changes to prevent production failures. cheng, his co-advisor tianyin xu , and their collaborators previously introduced using configuration tests (“ctests” for short) to detect misconfigurations, but running ctests takes a long time. cheng and his co-authors—cs faculty lingming zhang , darko marinov , and  xu—applied traditional test-case prioritization (tcp) methods to reorder ctests. after evaluating 84 traditional and novel ctest-specific tcp techniques on five widely used cloud projects, they discovered that tcp can substantially speed up misconfiguration detection. cs graduate student wenyu wang won an acm sigsoft distinguished paper award from the joint european software engineering conference and symposium on the foundations of software engineering ( esec/fse’21 ). he co-authored the paper “ vet: identifying and avoiding ui exploration tarpits ,” with his faculty co-advisors tianyin xu and tao xie and the university of texas at dallas faculty member wei yang who did his phd at illinois. vet is an effective technique for enhancing mobile user-interface (ui) testing by automatically addressing ui exploration tarpits. an exploration tarpit refers to a scenario where testing gets stuck with a small fraction of app functionalities for a long period of time (e.g., a testing tool logs out an app at early stages without being able to log back in). exploration tarpits are major causes of ineffectiveness in existing mobile ui testing. wang and his co-authors applied vet to enhance three state-of-the-art android ui testing tools. vet identified exploration tarpits that cost up to 98.6% of testing time budgets. these exploration tarpits reveal not only limitations in ui exploration designs, but also defects in tool implementations. vet automatically avoided the tarpits during testing, achieving high code coverage and improving crash-triggering capabilities. contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');