choose illinois computer science | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about open positions choose illinois computer science a tradition of excellence our history is, in part, the history of computing. from the illiac to blue waters , openmp to mpi , mosaic to youtube , and the first vectorizing compilers to llvm , illinois cs faculty, students, and alumni have long been at the forefront of computing research, innovation, and education. companies that have been founded or led by illinois cs graduates include c3.ai, malwarebytes, match.com, microsoft, netscape, optimizely, paypal, youtube, and yelp. outstanding research environment the mechanical engineering laboratory (left) and engineering hall (right). with $35 million in annual research expenditures from both federal and corporate resources, our faculty and graduate students are pioneering computer vision and all of its possibilities , investigating the algorithms behind social media and exploring how it impacts the spread of information in critical situations , and harnessing the power of the data revolution . illinois cs faculty and students are also bringing iot to the battlefield , helping define the post-moore’s law computing world, using algorithms to make the production of satellite imagery both faster and more clear , and confirming links between als and gene mutations . much of that research cuts across disciplinary lines, both within our highly-ranked grainger college of engineering and beyond . illinois cs research overview grainger engineering is home to 13 top-5 ranked degree programs, including the no. 2-ranked engineering physics program in the country, the no. 3 environmental engineering program, the no. 5 programs in materials science and engineering, agricultural and biological engineering, and electrical engineering. next door to the department of computer science, the national center for supercomputing applications offers the chance to apply high-performance computing to the world’s most serious, persistent, and inspiring challenges -- the study of distant objects in space , weather and climate science , feeding a growing global population , and information security . blue waters supercomputer also nearby on campus, the beckman institute’s mission is to foster interdisciplinary research focused on integrative imaging, intelligent systems, and molecular science and engineering. and illinois cs faculty can explore the relationships between people, information, and technology with colleagues at the top-ranked school of information sciences . the first-of-its-kind carle illinois college of medicine offers the chance to break new ground in the application of engineering to medicine. or you can join faculty from across campus working to advance life science research at the carl r. woese institute for genomic biology . or help shape the autonomous future of transportation, agriculture, health care, and more at the new center for autonomy . in all, the campus is home to roughly 100 research institutes, centers, and programs . located in the department of bioengineering, the jump simulation center is part of the groundbreaking engineering-based carle illinois college of medicine. the university of illinois system also is driving the development of the new discovery partners institute , a collaborative research institute for faculty and graduate students in chicago that will pool the resources of the state of illinois, northwestern university, the university of chicago, and others. research will be centered on computing and data, the environment and water, food and agriculture, and health and wellness. the university also is part of the emerging field of quantum information science and engineering. the formation of the new illinois quantum information science and technology center was announced in late 2018. and the university recently became part of a joint effort with the university of chicago and illinois’ two national laboratories, argonne national laboratory and fermi national accelerator laboratory, to make the chicago area a national leader in quantum technology . reconstruct's technology has been used during the construction of sacramento's new nba arena and to map chicago's underground infrastructure. faculty also have the opportunity to commercialize their research. companies recently founded by faculty include: runtime verification , which produces tools to verify programs as they execute, to improve the safety, reliability, and correctness of software. veriflow systems , which provides an advanced ability to secure online systems using a novel network verification tool. embeddor technologies provides real-time structural health monitoring of bridges and other civil infrastructure. reconstruct ’s visual data analytics platform improves efficiency and reduce risks in construction. cazoodle and its grantforward use deep data-aware vertical web searching to find and recommend potential sources of grant funding. amazing students, teaching opportunities u.s. news & world report ranks illinois computer science no. 5 in the country for graduate computer science. it is a top destination for undergraduates, too: applications have more than doubled to well over 5,000 a year over the past five years. and the department is growing to meet that demand. illinois cs has about 100 tenured, research, and teaching faculty, with expertise in almost any topic within the discipline. they are part of a cohesive, collaborative culture. “the university of illinois at urbana–champaign is updating and reinvigorating a number of traditional majors by combining them with computer science. the reasoning is that liberal-arts, arts, and agricultural fields increasingly encompass data analysis that requires computer-science skills.” the chronicle of higher education we are helping to define the future of computer science education. our stable of cs + x degrees blend computer science with math, statistics, crop sciences, music, linguistics, advertising, and a range of other fields. and more are on the way. illinois cs is among the leaders in online cs education , including the first mooc-based master’s degree in data science. the department also has focused on the development of its teaching faculty, including cutting- edge research on teaching at scale, data discovery, technology as a tool to improve outcomes, and computer-based testing . illinois computer science students go on to drive technological innovation , lead the companies shaping modern life , and educate the next generation of technologists. at least 40 are currently faculty members at top 25 u.s. computer science programs. the department also is home to the largest association for computing machinery student chapter in the world (founded in 1967) and a large number of other specialized student groups . illinois cs also is leading the way to a better, more diverse computing community. the national center for women & information technology recognized illinois cs for its work to increase women’s participation in computing with the 2017 next award . we continue to build on that work. some of our cs + x degrees, for instance, promise to draw even more women into the field: 57 percent of cs + anthropology students admitted for the fall of 2019 and 49 percent of all cs + linguistics students are women. vibrant entrepreneurial and collaborative ecosystem entrepreneurship is fully integrated across the curriculum, and supported in and out of the classroom and laboratory. that includes resources like the technology entrepreneur center and the research park , which provide training, support, working space, and experience to help faculty and students become successful entrepreneurs. the department’s active corporate program also brings industry leaders such as apple, google, intel, facebook, and nvidia to the thomas m. siebel center for computer science for interaction with faculty and students. the corporate connection program, in particular, provides dozens of opportunities for students to connect with the companies they want to work for. the research park also provides the chance for face-to-face interaction with more than 120 companies , from heavyweights such as abbott laboratories, archer daniels midland, bp america, capital one, caterpillar, and nvidia to the dozens of startups taking their first steps. remarkable quality of life the university of illinois and the diverse, family-friendly cities of champaign and urbana provide an culture and entertainment hub set in a midwestern college community. our campus is home to big 10 division i sports ; top-notch health and recreational facilities ; and marquee theatrical performances and live music of all kinds at the renowned krannert center . beyond campus, you will find the annual roger ebert’s film festival and a dedicated community of film lovers . there are more than 50 locally owned restaurants in downtown champaign and urbana, with dozens more elsewhere in the two cities. getting outside is easy, too. both champaign and urbana have well-developed systems of parks, jogging paths, and sports complexes. the cities host the illinois marathon every spring, drawing many thousands of runners to two days of races, and the main event is a qualifier for the boston marathon. and more than 30 illinois and indiana state parks and recreation areas are within 75 miles of campus. champaign-urbana also is ranked by business insider as one of the best small cities for educated millennials , and it’s affordable – the average home price in 2018 was just under $175,000. the campus also is within easy reach of city life in chicago, st. louis, and indianapolis, all under three hours away. contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');