ci fellowships support post-doctoral research in uncertain economic times | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home news ci fellowships support post-doctoral research in uncertain economic times 8/20/2021 9:54:50 am illinois cs communications two researchers with ties to illinois cs have received 2021 computing innovation (ci) fellowships , which are sponsored by the computing research association and its computing community consortium with strong support from the national science foundation. the ci fellows program was established to help recent and soon-to-be phd graduates launch their careers in uncertain economic times due to the pandemic. each fellow receives $75,000 in annual salary for two years. raghavendra (raghav) pothukuchi completed his phd in 2020 as a member of illinois cs professor josep torrellas ’ research group. pothukuchi developed intelligent computer systems for efficiency and security, using principled methods from formal control and machine learning to dynamically manage systems for achieving these goals. raghavendra pothukuchi received a 2021 ci fellowship to pursue post-doctoral research at yale university. he is now a post-doctoral researcher at yale university, where he is developing the computing system frameworks necessary to run models of cognition on existing quantum computers. he also studies what type of changes to the quantum systems are necessary to run these models efficiently. modeling human cognition and behavior using quantum probability theory has become a fast-growing research discipline in the cognitive sciences. the special properties of quantum probability such as superposition of states and noncommutative measurements, enable quantum cognitive models to easily explain the rich behavior observed in humans, which is difficult or even impossible with classical probability. currently, there is little computational infrastructure to develop these models and run them on quantum computers, severely hampering progress in this field. ultimately, pothukuchi’s work may enable the development of complex models that describe human cognition more accurately than ever before. the ci fellowship was particularly helpful to pothukuchi, who contracted covid-19 in 2021 and still has lingering health issues from the infection. his wife, sweta yamini pothukuchi, is also a graduate of illinois cs, earning her doctorate in december 2020. “it is an honor to receive the highly competitive award, which helps me step up my research on intelligent systems into the intersection of computer systems with cognitive science and quantum computing – areas that are becoming increasingly important and which will play a major role in the future,” said pothukuchi. a member of cs professor indranil gupta’s research group, le xu will join the university of texas at austin's department of computer science in september after she completes her phd. her post-doctoral research will involve studying and implementing serverless platforms to support new applications (stateful serverless) and infrastructure (heterogeneous cloud). le xu received a 2021 ci fellowship to pursue post-doctoral research at the university of texas at austin. in her doctoral studies, xu investigated how elastic resource provisioning helps today’s cloud systems maintain predictable performance  under  workload  influence  in  an automated  manner,  and  she explores  new  algorithms,  framework design, and efficient system implementation to achieve this goal. she developed a framework, called cameo, to provide elastic resource provisioning for real-time data processing, thereby improving performance for resource-constrained systems under many environmental variables. cameo uses fine-grained stream processing to provide high resource utilization while meeting latency targets. it dynamically calculates and propagates priorities of events based on user latency targets and query semantics. “the ci fellowship will support my post-doctoral [work], including conducting research projects and mentoring junior graduate students, as well as building a professional network,” xu said. xu, who earned bs and ms degrees in computer science from illinois, received other accolades during her graduate studies. she won the department’s 2016 david kuck outstanding ms thesis award and was selected to participate in the 2020 rising stars eecs workshop, an intensive workshop for women graduate students and postdocs who are pursuing academic careers. contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');