computer science visionary scholarship donors | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} #hero::before { background-image: url(//ws.engr.illinois.edu/sitemanager/viewphoto.aspx?id=12138&s=1600) !important; } skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home give computer science visionary scholarship donors there are a number of computer science alumni who are committed to making an illinois education more accessible. by generously donating to the computer science visionary scholarship fund, this cohort of donors (75+) is helping the department recognize the most-deserving and highest-achieving undergraduate students from all backgrounds by providing large, renewable scholarships. learn more about computer science visionary scholarships and the students who have benefitted from this support → to learn more about how you can make a difference in the life of a student, please contact director of advancement steve hall . a few of our csvs donors include: ron cytron family ron cytron ron (ms cs ’82, phd ’84) lost a dear friend and colleague in 2014. this friend was a university educator who cared deeply about students. in the friend’s will, cytron was instructed to endow a computer science undergraduate scholarship at the school of his choice, and was asked to keep the donor anonymous. “the visionary scholars fund was a nice lever for combining my friend’s gift with additional funds to have a greater effect than the money on its own,” explained cytron, who envisions the scholarship aiding students who are underrepresented in computer science. “i’d like to see students who couldn’t otherwise attend illinois benefit from this scholarship.” read more about ron's gift → roger dickey roger dickey roger is a cs bs ’05 graduate and has been actively engaged with the department since graduating. he has visited campus a number of time where he has shared his expertise and advice with students through panel discussions, job fairs, and as a cs engineer in residence. “i had a great experience as a student at illinois and want to support current and prospective students as much as possible,” dickey said. “the world needs more great engineers, and the [visionary scholarship initiative] supports that mission.” read more about roger’s gift → ross erlebacher & susan silver susan silver & ross erlebacher ross (bs cs ’88, ms ’89) and his wife susan have been long-time supporters of the illinois computer science program. they established their first scholarship in 2008 and have continued to give in a number of ways over the years. ross is a past cs alumni advisory board member and will also be recognized with the department’s distinguished service award in fall 2018. “it’s just one more person who can access the university who wouldn’t have been able to do it otherwise,” he said. “we’re big believers in undergraduate scholarships specifically. people need that first door opened.” read more about the most recent erlebacher and silver gift → marcin kleczynski marcin kleczynski after completing his bs in computer science in 2012, marcin kleczynski founded malwarebytes , where he is still the ceo. he wanted to make a donation to the department to help pave a way to the campus for entrepreneurially minded students. “i grew up in bensenville to a middle-class family that definitely couldn’t afford to pay for my schooling and yet i didn’t qualify for financial aid,” he said. “i got lucky and malwarebytes started taking off my freshman year of school, but the discomfort was real. if my fortunate turn of events could help others, i’m in!” read the complete story on marcin’s gift → amy moore-mckee amy moore-mckee amy earned her bs from the department in 1982 and has always been grateful for the amount of credibility that accompanied her degree. she was awarded the 2018 society of automotive engineers’ sid olsen engineering executive of the year award, which came with a $1,000 award. she chose to donate the money to the cs visionary scholarship fund. “i think it’s important to give back to our communities.” more on amy’s story → paul nash paul nash paul is a cs bs ’98 graduate who had big plans for himself, even before attending illinois. he has been impressed by the department’s efforts to recruit and support underrepresented groups and fully supports the scholarship fund’s goals of making an illinois education more affordable. “in my career i’ve been very lucky to experience three revolutions: the internet, then mobile, and now cloud and ai,” he said. “my time at illinois prepared me well for each of these. i’m thrilled to be able to give something back, so that future computer scientists and engineers will have that same solid starting point that has served me so well.” read more about paul and his gift → joel poloney joel poloney joel attended illinois from 2004-2007, where he then left the illinois computer science program to start a gaming company (myminilife inc.) with three classmates. he has proudly maintained his relationship with the department as an engineer in residence, by attending alumni events in the bay area, and by working with student groups like acm. “there are so many students who would not otherwise have access to an illinois education,” said poloney. “i really want to bring the best students to illinois regardless of their financial situation…by donating, you’re investing in your own future, as well as a student’s future. you will surely work with many illinois computer science alumni—keeping the talent pipeline strong will benefit you, your company, and our industry.” read more about joel’s gift → sandy & john rankin sandy & john rankin sandy and john are both graduates of illinois – bs cs `74 and bs las math & cs `72, respectively. they have been actively engaged with the department and college ever since graduating. they established their engineering visionary scholarship at the college-level, providing large, renewable scholarships to students across the entire college of engineering. “i worked for champaign national bank -- not making a huge amount of money, but it paid for my entire college education,” said john rankin (bs math & cs `72). “when we started realizing that kids couldn’t do that anymore, well, we want other people to have the same advantage we had, because we got a heck of a good education here,” said sandra rankin (bs cs `74). read more about sandy and john's gift → david simon david simon david is a cs bs ’05 graduate and was inspired to give because he believes in the direction of the computer science program, including more and more of the hands-on, group-based project work he says is a major part of his job as manager of data warehouse development for sirius xm radio in new york city. “illinois opens up doors everywhere,” simon said. “you want to go work in california? you want to work in silicon valley, you want to work in l.a.? illinois finds companies that want to recruit there from all over.” scholarships like the cs visionary scholarship program give talented students a runway toward realizing their dreams. read more about david’s gift → contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');