contact us & directions | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about contact us & directions department of computer science thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue urbana, il 61801-2302 admin office 217-333-3426 | fax: 217-333-3501 email: admin@cs.illinois.edu academic office 217-333-4428 graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu maps and tours get directions via google maps ada accessibility map of siebel center interactive campus map of siebel center virtual visit staff contacts all staff office of the department head undergraduate advising office graduate advising office communications and engagement team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving instructional development team faculty contacts department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty lecturers postdocs emeritus faculty all faculty directions from you to siebel center the university of illinois and the thomas m. siebel center for computer science are easy to get to from several locations. we are in easy driving distance from chicago and indianapolis. and getting here from the airport in bloomington, illinois, is also quick and easy. from chicago and other parts north view on google maps go south on i-57 s. - 109 miles merge onto i-74 e via exit 237a toward indianapolis. - 3.7 mi take the lincoln avenue exit, exit 183. - 0.3 mi turn right onto n lincoln ave. - 1.2 mi turn right onto w university ave/us-45/us-150.; - 0.2 mi take the 3rd left onto n goodwin ave. - n goodwin ave is just past n harvey st - 0.2 mi 201 n goodwin ave. – thomas m. siebel center for computer science from indianapolis view on google maps head west toward i-74 - 0.1 mi merge onto i-74 entering illinois - 107 mi take exit 185 to merge onto il-130 s toward university ave - 1.2 mi continue straight onto e university ave - 2.1 mi turn left onto n goodwin ave destination will be on the right - 0.2 mi 201 n goodwin ave. – thomas m. siebel center for computer science from bloomington, illinois (central illinois regional airport) view on google maps head northeast on cira dr - 0.3 mi turn left toward cira dr - 0.4 mi turn right onto cira dr - 0.2 mi take the 1st right onto e empire st - 0.9 mi turn right onto county rd 1900 e/n towanda barnes rd - 4.8 mi turn left onto us-150 e - 2.0 mi turn right onto n seminary st - 0.6 mi continue onto e 700 north rd - 0.4 mi turn left onto the interstate 74 e ramp to champaign - 0.3 mi merge onto i-74 - 39.6 mi take exit 183 for lincoln ave - 0.3 mi turn right onto n lincoln ave - 1.4 mi turn right onto w main st - 0.2 mi turn left onto n goodwin ave destination will be on the right - 240 ft 01 n goodwin ave. – thomas m. siebel center for computer science amtrak chicago is a brief train ride from urbana-champaign. the train runs several times throughout the day, making it a convenient location for a weekend or even a day trip. ticket and scheduling information can be found on amtrak's web site .  details about champaign's train station, chm, can be found here . downloadable timetables for the city of new orleans and for illinois services (saluki), which are the routes between champaign and chicago, are available at: https://www.amtrak.com/train-schedules-timetables . contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');