cs student opportunity series (cs sos) | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home academics undergraduate academics cs student opportunity series (cs sos) welcome to the cs student opportunity series! the cs student opportunity series (sos) provides tools and resources for undergraduate students in cs majors to grow academically, professionally, and personally.  each semester, students hear presentations from experts about a variety of topics. thanks to students from cs registered student organizations , each presentation includes a student panel to help cs students practically implement strategies for success. drinks and snacks are provided at each on-campus event. sos events will remain virtual until further notice. fall 2021 sos communi-tea information about fall 2021 communi-tea events will be updated in september 2021. stay tuned and stay well! we can talk about classes, changes to instruction, job hunts, stressful things, new games, or other topics that are meaningful to you. bring your own tea or coffee and connect with cs students and advising in this weekly event. no worries if you cannot join at the beginning or stay the whole time--join when you are available. all are welcome! cs student opportunity series presentations offered in partnership with the following: the college of engineering embedded counselor, cs student organizations, engineering career services ( ecs ), illinois leadership center (ilc), and counseling center paraprofessionals (ccp). download pdf // more information, including self-help brochures, can be found on the counseling center webpage. check out the new counseling center youtube channel for recorded presentations to help with your academic journey! fall 2021 presentations: the cs sos will not be offering cs presentations in fall 2021, but we are happy to endorse these events offered by campus partners: tuesdays @ 7 (offered by the counseling center): https://counselingcenter.illinois.edu/tuesday-at-7 college of las success workshops: https://las.illinois.edu/lifecareerdesign/exploration/lassuccess grainger college of engineering care tutoring: https://care.grainger.illinois.edu/tutoring engineering career services (ecs) career development workshops and events: https://students.grainger.illinois.edu/ecs/home/ ecs fall programs flyer illinois leadership center (ilc) i-programs: https://leadership.illinois.edu/i-programs ilc fall 2021 programs flyer math and statistics student support center (new for fall 2021!): https://publish.illinois.edu/mathstat-ssc/ past presentations available for review via cs sos media space channel addressing mental health basics today's job search (ecs) distant socializing & staying socially active study techniques & environments (ccp) anxiety & stress management job search during a pandemic (ecs) cs registered student organization events for summer/fall 2021 wcs bits & bytes mentorship program: wcs is excited to announce that we will be starting our bits and bytes mentorship program in the summer this year (before the 2021-2022 school year), so that we can provide incoming illinois cs students with tips and tricks essential to navigating their first years at uiuc. for those new to the program, each family consists of bits (mentees), bytes (mentors), and a family head (a wcs officer). there will be 3-4 bits in your family with 2 parent bytes. multiple families will be grouped together under a wcs officer to help organize cross-family activities! the families will continue on for the rest of the year, and wcs will provide programming so that families can meet one another frequently. to be a bit, you must be either a freshman, sophomore, or transfer student studying or interested in studying computer science at illinois. to be a byte, you must either be a sophomore, junior, senior, or graduate student. everyone, regardless of major, gender, race, etc., can sign up to be a bit or byte! sign up to be a bit/byte by september 2nd at https://go.illinoiswcs.org/bits-bytes-signup and we will match you with your new family! families will be your personal resource throughout the year. it is up to you how you want to spend your time with them. it might be at a wcs event, random zoom call, game night, or anything! cs mental health committee (csmhc): the cs mental health committee is a student organization dedicated to promoting dialogue and improving mental health resources for students in the community. you might know us from our mental health awareness nights, de-stressing events, or our mindfulness monday posts on social media (shameless plug: @csmhc.illinois)! we even worked on the senate initiative to get cr/nc grading in the fall 2020 semester . this year, we are hosting a new mental health forum for students to discuss challenges they may be experiencing with mental health, look for campus resources , and hear from peers about tips around well-being and self-care, as well as a new faculty mental health ambassador program to create more mental health-friendly course policies and dialogue in classes. https://csmhcillinois.com/ contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');