cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home broadening participation bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) what is cs student ambassador/research scholars(cs stars)? program dates: academic year 2021-22 illinois cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars)  is designed for university of illinois undergraduate students who are interested in pursuing undergraduate research in a chosen area of interest while also serving as departmental leaders to recruit women to the cs majors and empower women cs undergraduates. the program will take place during the academic year. cs stars,  will receive a stipend and will have commitment of about 10 hours per week. they will conduct research with and be mentored by a cs faculty member  (6-7 hours a week) and will also engage in recruiting, mentoring, and cohort building activities (3-4 hours a week). using application materials, the cs stars team will match participants to illinois cs faculty members who would be a good fit for supporting each participant’s research and personal goals. during the summer, cs stars may have additional opportunities to conduct research full time in the cs summer reu program and to serve as mentors during the illinois cs kickstart program to welcome incoming students. apply now! illinois cs stars will : participate in research and develop an ongoing engagement with faculty and their research group participate in a one-credit course for cs stars focused on research, leadership, and mentorship skills on wednesdays at 5:00 pm during the fall and spring semesters serve as ambassadors to recruit women who are interested in the cs majors facilitate activities and maintain departmental connections among undergraduate women in computing program dates/location cs stars will run each academic year beginning with the 2021-22 year. program activities will take place on the university of illinois at urbana-champaign campus. undergraduate research appointments cs stars will be appointed to undergraduate hourly positions with a rate determined by experience according to departmental guidelines. the cs stars course will be included as part of each participant's 10-hour appointment. eligibility, qualifications, and ambassador activities applications are open to all illinois undergraduate students who are interested in pursuing research and empowering women in computer science. experience (preferred but not required): research (e.g., summer research experiences for undergraduates) mentorship, leadership, and teaching at any level (e.g., student organization leadership, ca experience, community mentorship/volunteer work with youth) knowledge: commitment to broadening participation in education and supporting students from diverse backgrounds excellent listening, oral, organizational, and communication skills potential for leadership, mentorship and empathy cs stars will spend their time on the following activities: research (65%): academic year: work with a cs faculty member on a research topic of interest. leadership and mentorship (25%): academic year: plan and execute recruiting, mentoring and cohort building activities for undergraduate women in computing. summer (optional): serve as illinois cs kickstart mentoring/leadership staff. develop and facilitate activities and programming for program participants. training (10%): enroll in the cs stars course optional: attend summer training to serve as illinois cs kickstart mentor application information timeline application will launch on july 16. applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis. priority deadline: august 8. decisions will be announced by august 20. application materials the cs stars application is designed to give a holistic view of each applicant's personal, academic, leadership, and research history/interests. the following materials provide this information: 300-500 word personal statement: a 300-500 word statement of interest describing your interest in cs stars and why your background and experiences would benefit you in this role. 300-500 word research statement : describes any prior research experiences you may have had (not required) and what research topics you would like to pursue while in cs stars. 100-200 word leadership and mentorship statement: describes any leadership or mentorship experience you have and how you facilitated a welcoming and inclusive environment as part of your work in this role. 150 word bio: describes your academic and research background. bios will provide a broader view of each applicant's background, as well as be posted on the cs stars website if accepted to the program. name and email address for one reference: applicants will need to upload this into their application. reference letters will be requested on behalf of the applicant through our application portal. applicants do not need to upload their letters or have references email a letter to the program. gpa: university of illinois students should provide their current uiuc gpa. incoming students should provide the high school gpa. other application materials (application statements, cv) will provide the necessary context for your gpa. resume or curriculum vitae (cv) faculty/research areas: to explore faculty/research projects with whom you would like to engage, please visit our illinois cs research page to learn more about potential faculty mentors/projects. click here to apply! cs ambassador team nancy amato abel bliss professor of engineering head of department of computer science namato@illinois.edu colleen lewis assistant professor colleenl@illinois.edu jancie harris broadening participation in computing coordinator jlphili2@illinois.edu contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');