illinois cs kickstart | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home broadening participation bpc programs & activities for students illinois cs kickstart what is illinois cs kickstart? applications for the 2021 cs kickstart program are now closed. illinois cs kickstart is a four day program for students admitted to the university of illinois at urbana-champaign that aims to empower women in computer science. program participants will join a diverse group of their peers for an inclusive and creative learning experience exploring cs. the program strives to foster relationships and build community to strengthen cs enrollment and retention. illinois cs kickstart is dedicated to: empowering students with the knowledge of cs fundamentals connecting students with cs students and professionals to serve as role models and mentors inspiring students by showing the breadth and power of cs and technology informing students about opportunities to pursue a cs minor or major at the university of illinois, what resources are available to support them, and how cs can be applicable to their career goals. developing a sense of community among participants. mentoring students by providing near-peer mentors and connections to students, staff, and faculty within the department. program dates illinois cs kickstart 2021 will run from august 15-19, 2021 cost up to 30 students will be awarded an on-campus room and board scholarship to attend. students are responsible for their own transportation to campus. housing/meals participants will stay in their fall 2021 campus dorms. housing costs from the evening of sunday, august 15-august 18 are covered by illinois cs. all meals starting with breakfast on monday, august 16 through breakfast on august 19 are provided in the university of illinois dining halls. curriculum and schedule some topics expected to be covered during the week’s activities are technology orientation for first year computing courses, introduction to coding, and professional opportunities in the field. participants will have the opportunity to engage with cs graduate students, get to know other incoming students interested in cs, and meet professors in the cs department.  a detailed schedule will be posted at a later date. all activities will take place synchronously on the university of illinois campus. if possible, selected participants should plan on being moved into their dorms by 7:00 pm on sunday, august 15. the program will kick off with a welcome orientation that evening at 7:30 pm. official program activities will run from approximately 9-5 every day with a few optional but highly encouraged evening social activities. program activities will conclude by august 19 at 9:00 am. eligibility applications are open to students of any gender identity who have been admitted to the university of illinois urbana-champaign as a first year student or a transfer student and have an interest in fostering a supportive community for women. no prior computer science experience is necessary. who should apply cs kickstart students may: be curious about what they could do with a cs degree have little to no experience (or who aren't even really sure what cs is) be enrolled in an introductory cs course at university of illinois urbana-champaign (i.e., cs101, cs105, cs124, cs128) application process click on each step below to learn more about the cs kickstart application process. applications are due july 23, 2021. prepare your application materials personal statement: please provide a 100-200 word statement of interest describing your interest in the cs kickstart program, what you hope to gain by participating, what experience you have had with computer science, if any, as well as what interests you about computer science. diversity statement: please provide a 100-200 word statement describing how you have helped foster a welcoming environment or how you would contribute to the development of a diverse and inclusive learning community at cs kickstart. submit an online application applications for the 2021 cs kickstart program are now closed. application timeline deadline to apply: 7/23/2021 decisions emailed to applicants by: 8/1/2021 deadline to accept offer: 8/9/2021 cs kickstart team elsa gunter research professor and senior lecturer director of undergraduate studies colleen lewis associate professor broadening participation in computing graduate fellows kathleen isenegger, lead project fellow max fowler contact for questions about the program, application, or any other inquiries, please email the team at bpc-programs@cs.illinois.edu . contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');