derek w hoiem
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty derek w hoiem derek w hoiem professor (217) 333-0806 dhoiem@illinois.edu 3312 siebel center for comp sci for more information homepage biography derek hoiem is an associate professor in computer science. one of the main research directions is recovering 3d geometry from single images and improving spatial understanding of scenes.  for example, hoiem produced the first algorithm to generate 3d models from single photos of typical outdoor scenes, and his group contributed foundational works in 3d scene modeling from rgb and rgbd images.  other important directions include learning object representations, for example work on attribute-based representations, and improving our understanding of generalization and ability to extend learned representations to new tasks.  hoiem's educational background includes undergrad degrees in cs and ee from suny buffalo, a phd in robotics from carnegie mellon, and a beckman postdoc fellowship.  research awards include acm doctoral dissertation award honorable mention, cvpr best paper award, intel early career faculty award, sloan fellowship, and pami significant young researcher award.  derek hoiem is also co-founder and chief scientist of reconstruct, which visually documents construction sites, matching images to plans and analyzing productivity and risk for delay. academic positions associate professor, department of computer science, uiuc, 2015 to present. associate professor (affiliate), department of electrical and computer engineering, uiuc, 2015 to present. research interests computer vision, object recognition, scene understanding, graphics research areas artificial intelligence selected articles in journals c zou, r guo, z li, d hoiem, "complete 3d scene parsing from an rgbd image", international journal of computer vision (ijcv), 127(2), feb 2019. z. li and d. hoiem, “learning without forgetting”, ieee pattern analysis and machine intelligence (pami), 99, nov 2017. r. guo and d. hoiem, "labeling complete surfaces in scene understanding", international journal of computer vision (ijcv), 112 (2), april 2015. i. endres and d. hoiem, "category-independent object proposals with diverse ranking", ieee transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence (pami), 36 (2), 2014. g. wang, d. forysth, and d. hoiem, “improved object categorization and detection using
comparative object similarity”, ieee transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence
(pami), 35 (10), oct 2013. g. wang, d. hoiem, and d. forsyth, “learning image similarity from flickr groups using
fast kernel machines”,  ieee transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence
(pami), 16, jan 2012. r. guo, q. dai, and d. hoiem, " paired regions for shadow detection and removal", ieee transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence (pami), no 2, oct 2012. k. karsch, v. hedau, d. forsyth, d. hoiem, "rendering synthetic objects into legacy photographs", acm transactions on graphics (siggraph asia) , 2011. d. hoiem, a.a. efros, and m. hebert, “recovering occlusion boundaries from an image," international journal of computer vision 91 , no. 3, 2011. t.l. berg, a. sorokin, g. wang, d.a. forsyth, d. hoiem, a. farhadi, and i. endres, "it's all about the data", proc. ieee special issue on internet vision , august 2010, 98 (8), 1434-1453. (citations:4). d. hoiem, a.a. efros, and m. hebert, "putting objects in perspective," international journal of computer vision, oct 2008. invited paper d. hoiem, a.a. efros, and m. hebert, "recovering surface layout from an image," international journal of computer vision , vol. 75, no. 1, october 2007. j-f. lalonde, d. hoiem, a.a. efros, j. winn, c. rother and a. criminisi, "photo clip art," acm transactions on graphics (siggraph) , 2007. d. hoiem, a.a. efros, and m. hebert, "automatic photo pop-up," acm transactions on graphics (siggraph proc.) , 2005. articles in conference proceedings t gupta, d schwenk, a farhadi, d hoiem, a kembhavi, "imagine this! scripts to compositions to videos", proceedings of the european conference on computer vision (eccv), 598-613, 2018. j degol, t bretl, d hoiem, "improved structure from motion using fiducial marker matching", proceedings of the european conference on computer vision (eccv), 273-288, 2018. j degol, jy lee, r kataria, d yuan, t bretl, d hoiem, "feats: synthetic feature tracks for structure from motion evaluation",  international conference on 3d vision (3dv), 352-361, 2018. d. shin, c. fowlkes, d. hoiem, "pixels, voxels, and views:  a study of shape representations for single view 3d object shape prediction," cvpr 2018, salt lake city, ut, 2018. c. zou, a. colburn, q. shan, d. hoiem, "layoutnet: reconstructing the 3d room layout from a single rgb image," cvpr 2018, salt lake city, ut, 2018. t. gupta, k. shih, s. singh, d. hoiem, "aligned image-word representations improve inductive transfer across vision-language tasks," iccv 2017, venice, italy, 2017 j. degol, t. bretl, d. hoiem, "chromatag: a colored marker and fast detection algorithm," iccv 2017, venice, italy. 2017 c. zou, e. yumer, j. yang, d. ceylan, d. hoiem, "3d-prnn: generating shape primitives with recurrent neural networks," iccv 2017, venice, italy. 2017 s. singh, d. hoiem, and d. forsyth, “swapout: learning an ensemble of deep architectures”,
neural information processing systems (nips)), 2016. z. li and d. hoiem, “learning without forgetting”, european conference on computer
vision (eccv)), 2016. s. singh, d. hoiem, and d. forsyth, “learning to localize little landmarks”, ieee conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition (cvpr)), 2016. j. degol, m. golparvar-fard, and d. hoiem, “geometry-informed material recognition”,
ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (cvpr)), 2016. k.j. shih, s. singh, and d. hoiem, “where to look: focus regions for visual question
answering”, ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (cvpr)), 2016. k.j. shih, a. mallya, s. singh, d. hoiem, "part localization using multi-proposal consensus for fine-grained categorization", british conference on machine vision (bmvc), 2015. s. singh, d. hoiem and d.a. forsyth, "learning to find landmarks", ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (cvpr), 2015. j. rock, t. gupta, j. gwak, d. shin, and d. hoiem, "completing 3d object shape from one depth image", ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (cvpr), 2015. q. dai, p. carr, l. sigal, and d. hoiem, "family member identification from photo collections", ieee winter conference on applications in computer vision (wacv), 2015. r. guo and d. hoiem , “support surface prediction in indoor scenes”, international conference
on computer vision (iccv), 2013. k. karsch, z. liao, j. rock, j.t. barron, and d. hoiem , “boundary cues for 3d object
shape recovery”, computer vision and pattern recognition (cvpr), 2013. i. endres, k. shih, j. jiaa, and d. hoiem, “learning collections of part models for object
recognition”, computer vision and pattern recognition (cvpr), 2013. d. hoiem, y. chodpathumwan, and q. dai, “diagnosing error in object detectors”, european conference on computer vision (eccv), 2012. acceptance rate, oral: 4% r. guo and d. hoiem, “beyond the line of sight: labeling the underlying surfaces”, european conference on computer vision (eccv), 2012. acceptance rate, oral: 4% n. silberman, d. hoiem, p. kohli, and r. fergus, “indoor segmentation and support inference
from rgbd images”, european conference on computer vision (eccv), 2012. acceptance rate, oral: 4% ian endres, vivek srikumar, ming-wei chang, and derek hoiem, “learning shared body
plans”,
 ieee conf. on computer vision and pattern recognition (cvpr), 2012.  acceptance rate, poster: 24% qieyun dai and derek hoiem, “learning to localize detected objects”,
 ieee conf. on computer vision and pattern recognition (cvpr), 2012.  acceptance rate, poster: 24% varsha hedau, derek hoiem, and david forsyth, “recovering free space of indoor scenes
from a single image”,
 ieee conf. on computer vision and pattern recognition (cvpr), 2012.  acceptance rate, poster: 24% m. dikmen, d. hoiem, and t.s. huang, “a data-driven method for feature transformation”,
 ieee conf. on computer vision and pattern recognition (cvpr), 2012.  acceptance rate, poster: 24% r. guo, q. dai, and d. hoiem, “single-image shadow detection and removal using paired regions”, computer vision and pattern recognition 2011. acceptance rate, oral: 3.5% i. endres and d. hoiem, “category independent object proposals”, european conference on computer vision 2010. acceptance rate, poster: 27% v. hedau, d. hoiem, and d.a. forsyth, “thinking inside the box: using appearance models and context based on room geometry”, european conference on computer vision 2010.  acceptance rate, poster: 27% a. farhadi, i. endres, and d. hoiem, “attribute-centric recognition for cross-category generalization”, ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition 2010. acceptance rate, poster: 22.3% i. endres, a. farhadi, d. hoiem, and d.a. forsyth, “the benefits and challenges of collecting richer object annotations”, advancing computer vision with humans in the loop (cvpr workshop) 2010. g. wang, d.a. forsyth, and d. hoiem, "comparative object similarity for improved recognition with few or no examples", ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition 2010. acceptance rate, poster: 22.3% g. wang, d. hoiem, and d.a. forsyth, "learning image similarity from flickr groups using stochastic intersection kernel machines",  international conference on computer vision  2009. acceptance rate, poster: 23% v. hedau, d. hoiem, and d.a. forsyth, "recovering the spatial layout of cluttered rooms", international conference on computer vision 2009. acceptance rate, poster:â 23% s.k. divvala, d. hoiem, j.h. hays, a.a. efros, and m. hebert, "an empirical study of context in object detection",  ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition  2009.  acceptance rate, poster: 26% g. wang, d. hoiem, and d.a. forsyth, "building text features for object image classification",  ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition  2009. acceptance rate, poster: 26% a. farhadi, i. endres, d. hoiem, and d.a. forsyth, "describing objects by their attributes",  ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition  2009. acceptance rate, poster: 26% m. szummer, p. kohli, and d. hoiem, "learning crfs using graph cuts," european conference on computer vision 2008 . acceptance rate, poster: 23% d. hoiem, a.a. efros, and m. hebert, "closing the loop on scene interpretation," ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition 2008 . acceptance rate, oral: 4% d. hoiem, c. rother, and j. winn, "3d layoutcrf for multi-view object class recognition and segmentation," ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition 2007 . acceptance rate, poster: 23% a.n. stein, d. hoiem, and m. hebert, "learning to extract object boundaries using motion cues," international conference on computer vision 2007 . acceptance rate, oral: 4% d. hoiem, a.n. stein, a.a. efros, and m. hebert, "recovering occlusion boundaries from a single image," international conference on computer vision 2007 . acceptance rate, oral: 4% d. hoiem, a.a. efros, and m. hebert, "putting objects in perspective," ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition 2006 . acceptance rate, oral: 4.8%; best paper out of 1131 submitted b. nabbe, d. hoiem, a.a. efros, and m. hebert, "opportunistic use of vision to push back the path-planning horizon," iros 2006 . acceptance rate: 46% y. ke, d. hoiem, and r. sukthankar, "computer vision for music identification," ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, 2005 . acceptance rate, poster: 22% d. hoiem, a.a. efros, and m. hebert, "geometric context from a single image," international conference on computer vision 2005 . acceptance rate, poster: 16% d. hoiem, y. ke, and r. sukthankar, "solar: sound object localization and retrieval in complex audio environments," international conference on acoustics, speech and signal processing, 2005. l. huston, r. sukthankar, d. hoiem, and j. zhang, "snapfind: brute force interactive image retrieval," international conference on image and graphics , 2004. d. hoiem, r. sukthankar, h. schneiderman, and l. huston, "object-based image retrieval using the statistics of images," ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , 2004. acceptance rate, poster: 23.6% honors dean's award for excellence in research, asssociate professor (2021) campus distinguished promotion award  (2015) cw gear junior faculty award  (2014) ieee pami young researcher award (2014) dean's award for excellence in research, assistant professor (2014) sloan research fellowship (2013) nsf career award (2011) teaching honors list of teachers ranked as excellent (fall 2021) list of teachers ranked as excellent (spring 2020) list of teachers ranked as excellent (fall 2017) list of teachers ranked as excellent (spring 2017) list of teachers ranked as excellent (spring 2015) list of teachers ranked as excellent (fall 2014) list of teachers rated excellent (fall 2013) list of teachers rated excellent (spring 2012) list of teachers rated excellent (fall 2011) list of teachers rated excellent (spring 2011) list of teachers rated excellent (fall 2010) research honors dean's award for excellence in research, associate professor (2021) best paper award: ieee winter conference on applications in computer vision (wacv)(2015) ieee pami young researcher award (2014) dean's award for excellence in research, assistant professor (2014) sloan research fellowship (2013) intel early career faculty honor program award (2012) nsf career award (2011) microsoft new faculty fellowship finalist (2010, 2011) acm doctoral dissertation award, honorable mention, 2008. (runner-up for best dissertation in computer science, internationally) carnegie mellon university scs distinguished dissertation award, 2008 (best dissertation in computer science at cmu) best paper award: ieee computer vision and pattern recognition (cvpr) (2006) courses taught - last four years cs 445 - computational photography cs 543 - computer vision cs 598 - 3d vision ece 549 - computer vision related news reconstruct raises $17.3m series b to advance construction management news | july 13, 2021 four cs faculty honored with college and campus awards for excellence in research and instruction news | april 21, 2021 institute for artificial intelligence in construction planned news | september 17, 2020 dpi awards r&d grants to support illinois cs faculty news | september 4, 2020 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');