david m. nicol
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty david m. nicol david m. nicol professor, electrical and computer engineering (217) 244-1925 dmnicol@illinois.edu 451 coordinated science lab for more information david nicol's home page education ph.d., computer science,university of virginia, 1985 biography prof david m. nicol is the herman m. dieckamp endowed chair of engineering at the university of illinois at urbana‐champaign, and a member of the department of electrical and computer engineering.  he also serves as the director of the information trust institute (iti.illinois.edu), and the director of the advanced digital sciences center (singapore). he is pi for two national centers for infrastructure resilience: the dhs‐funded critical infrastructure resilience institute (ciri.illinois.edu), and the doe funded cyber resilient energy delivery consortium (cred‐c.org); he is also pi for the boeing trusted software center, and co-pi for the nsa‐funded science of security lablet. prior to joining uiuc in 2003 he served on the faculties of the computer science departments at dartmouth college (1996‐2003), and before that the college of william and mary (1987‐1996). he has won recognition for excellence in teaching at all three universities. his research interests include trust analysis of networks and software, analytic modeling, and parallelized discrete‐event simulation, research which has led to the founding of startup company network perception, and election as fellow of the ieee and fellow of the acm. he is the inaugural recipient of the acm sigsim outstanding contributions award, and co‐author of the widely used undergraduate textbook "discrete‐event systems simulation". teaching statement i aim to convey difficult material clearly, and challenge students to integrate concepts to solve new types of problems that follow immediately from the material covered. research statement the study of large-scale systems encounters problems in representation, scalability, and behavior.  project moses investigates such issues, particularly in the context of networking security. undergraduate research opportunities i have almost always had undergraduates working on my research team.  i support undergraduate summer interns. research interests security policy and its analysis parallel discrete-event simulation fluid based modeling mathematical modeling and analysis security public-key infrastructure research areas security and privacy systems and networking teaching honors alumni fellowship award, given by the william and mary society of the alumni for excellence in teaching, 1992. research honors franklin w. woeltge professorship in electrical and computer engineering best paper award, conference on principles of advanced and distributed simulation, june 2012 reconocimiento especial, tecnologico de monterrey (honoring my textbook "discrete-event systems simulation", 2010 best paper award, malware 2010 best paper award, conference on principals of advanced and distributed simulation, june 2008 acm sigsim distinguished contributions award, 2007 acm distinguished lecturer, 2008 acm distinguished lecturer, 2007 fellow of the acm, for contributions to discrete event simulation best paper award, conference on principles of advanced and distributed simulation, june 2005. best paper award, ipsi 2004-studenica conference on internet technologies ieee fellow, 2003. marion and jason whiting fellowship for study at oxford university, 2000. best paper award, 9th annual conference on parallel and distributed simulation, 1995. employee excellence award, control data corporation, 1982. great performer's award, control data corporation, 1980. courses taught - last four years cs 541 - computer systems analysis ece 498 - special topics in ece ece 541 - computer systems analysis related news nsa and university of illinois: partnering to secure networks and cyber systems news | january 23, 2020 u of i team studying spread of information on social media news | february 13, 2018 cs, ece professors explore how social media spreads information, affects beliefs, and even shapes events news | february 5, 2018 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');