faculty positions | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} #hero::before { background-image: url(//ws.engr.illinois.edu/sitemanager/viewphoto.aspx?id=16099&s=1600) !important; } skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about open positions faculty positions faculty positions tenure track faculty (open rank) – computer science teaching faculty (open rank) - computer science learn more about illinois computer science illinois computer science impact report illinois computer science research overview tenure track faculty (open rank) university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering: professor (open rank) – computer science apply here! the department of computer science at the university of illinois urbana-champaign invites applications for full-time tenure-track faculty positions at all levels (assistant professor, associate professor, full professor). we particularly encourage applications in quantum computing, but also welcome applications from exceptional candidates in other areas. the university of illinois is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer that recruits and hires qualified candidates without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, national origin, disability or veteran status. for more information, visit http://go.illinois.edu/eeo. cs students celebrate graduation, may 2016. (photo credit: priten vora) applicants are required to have (or expected to receive) a ph.d. or equivalent degree in computer science or a related field. additional qualifications include the ability to teach effectively at both the graduate and undergraduate levels and the potential to initiate and carry out independent research. we seek applicants that will contribute to the diverse, vibrant and inclusive atmosphere in the department as we strive to make computing’s remarkable opportunities available to everyone through the continued expansion of our research and teaching activity in urbana-champaign, in chicago , and online. quantum computing faculty will engage with a growing campus and state-wide quantum research community through the new illinois quantum information science and technology center (iquist) and the chicago quantum exchange . the department of computer science is home to u.s. news & world report top-5 undergraduate and graduate programs and is a key component of the grainger college of engineering at illinois , one of the nation's elite engineering schools. our history is, in part, the history of computing. from the illiac to blue waters , openmp to mpi , mosaic to youtube , and the first vectorizing compilers to llvm , illinois cs faculty, students, and alumni have long been at the forefront of computing research and innovation. cs department faculty have been founders of multiple startup companies including reconstruct , runtime verification , veriflow systems , and others. companies that have been founded or led by illinois cs graduates include c3, malwarebytes, match.com, microsoft, netscape, optimizely, paypal, youtube, and yelp. ncsa's national petascale computing facility illinois computer science includes 78 tenure track faculty members, 29 teaching and research faculty, and 60 academic and research staff and professionals, and enrolls nearly 2000 undergraduates and 1900 graduate students, including over 420 phd students. the department faculty include 20 ieee fellows, 17 acm fellows, and 40 nsf career award winners. our research embraces all major technical specializations in the profession, and is at the heart of the university of illinois' rich network of interdisciplinary centers and institutes such as the national center for supercomputing applications (ncsa) , the beckman institute for advanced science and technology , the coordinated science laboratory , the carl r. woese institute for genomic biology , and the health care engineering systems center . we are pioneering innovations in computer science education, including new cross-disciplinary cs + x degrees for undergraduates and a growing online master's program , and our faculty are contributing the world’s first engineering-based college of medicine . more details about the department can be found at http://cs.illinois.edu . qualified senior candidates may also be considered for tenured associate professor and full professor positions as part of the grainger engineering breakthroughs initiative in which new endowed professorships and chairs will be established in areas of strategic interest to the grainger college of engineering. such areas include, but are not limited to, quantum, big data, machine learning, and robotics. more information about the grainger initiative can be found at https://grainger.illinois.edu/research/grainger-breakthroughs . the thomas m. siebel center for computer science, home to illinois computer science. application review and interviewing will begin immediately. all applications received before march 15, 2021 will receive full consideration. salary will be commensurate with qualifications. preferred starting date is august 16, 2021 but is negotiable. applications can be submitted by going to http://jobs.illinois.edu and uploading a cover letter, cv, research statement, teaching statement, and a statement on commitment to diversity, along with names and contact information of at least three references who will be contacted to provide letters. the statement on diversity should address past and/or potential contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion through research, teaching, and/or service. applicants who desire confidentiality should explicitly mention this in the first paragraph of their cover letter. for inquiry, please call 217-333- 3426 or email hr@cs.illinois.edu . the university of illinois conducts criminal background checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of a contingent offer. the university of illinois system requires candidates selected for hire to disclose any documented finding of sexual misconduct or sexual harassment and to authorize inquiries to current and former employers regarding findings of sexual misconduct or sexual harassment. for more information, visit " policy on consideration of sexual misconduct in prior employment .” as a qualifying federal contractor, the university of illinois system uses e-verify to verify employment eligibility . the university of illinois must also comply with applicable federal export control laws and regulations and, as such, reserves the right to employ restricted party screening procedures for applicants. we have an active and successful dual-career partner placement program and a strong commitment to work-life balance and family-friendly programs for faculty and staff ( https://provost.illinois.edu/facultyaffairs/work-life-balance/). teaching faculty (open rank) university of illinois at urbana-champaign college of engineering: teaching faculty (open rank) – computer science apply here! the department of computer science (cs) at the university of illinois urbana-champaign invites applications for multiple full-time teaching faculty positions at all levels and in all areas of computer science. special areas of focus include information retrieval, data mining, and artificial intelligence. we seek highly qualified applicants with a strong commitment to excellence in teaching and the ability to teach at all levels. the university of illinois is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer that recruits and hires qualified candidates without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, national origin, disability or veteran status. for more information, visit http://go.illinois.edu/eeo . staff for student-run hackillinois 2015. (photo credit: priten vora) teaching faculty positions are renewable, career-oriented, non-tenure-track positions. initial appointments are typically at the rank of instructor or teaching assistant professor, with the possibility of promotion to the ranks of senior instructor or teaching associate professor and teaching professor.  applicants for instructor positions must have at least a b.s. (m.s. preferred) and applicants for teaching professor positions (all ranks) must have a ph.d. or equivalent degree in cs or a closely related field.  competitive applicants will show the promise of excellence in classroom teaching and will demonstrate strong cs and teaching knowledge, as well as demonstrate evidence of a commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. senior-level appointments are available for candidates with significant additional experience, stature, and demonstrated teaching excellence.  multi-year contracts are available for all positions. successful applicants will join the department’s thriving community of creative, passionate, and innovative teaching faculty who contribute to high-quality instruction, curriculum development, and student mentoring.  many faculty also engage in other student engagement activities and outreach activities. teaching professors are expected to have a deep interest in improving pedagogy beyond the cs department, may take on leadership roles on campus, and many engage in research in computer science education or other areas of computer science. cs clinical assistant professor mike woodley judges entries at hackillinois. (photo credit: priten vora) the university of illinois has one of the strongest cs departments in the country, with more than 100 faculty and nearly 2000 undergraduate majors and 1900 graduate students across eighteen different degree programs.   in addition to our flagship undergraduate program in the grainger college of engineering , which includes more than 30% women in our freshman class, our innovative cs + x programs incorporate a strong grounding in cs with technical or professional training in the arts and sciences across 13 different disciplines.   both our undergraduate and graduate programs are ranked in the top five in the country by us news & world report . we are also one of the leading teaching units on campus, offering computing education to students in every discipline. we welcome applicants that will contribute to the diverse and vibrant atmosphere in the department as we seek to make computing’s remarkable opportunities available to everyone through the continued expansion of our programs and offerings in urbana-champaign, in chicago and online. the start date for these positions is flexible. application review and interviews will begin immediately. in order to ensure full consideration for a fall 2021 start date, applications must be received by april 1, 2021. salary will be commensurate with qualifications. applications should be submitted by visiting http://jobs.illinois.edu and uploading a cover letter, curriculum vitae, teaching statement, a statement on commitment to diversity, and the names and contact information for three references. applicants may also submit supporting material relevant to evaluating their teaching abilities. for inquiry, please email hr@cs.illinois.edu . the university of illinois conducts criminal background checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of a contingent offer. the university of illinois system requires candidates selected for hire to disclose any documented finding of sexual misconduct or sexual harassment and to authorize inquiries to current and former employers regarding findings of sexual misconduct or sexual harassment. for more information, visit policy on consideration of sexual misconduct in prior employment .” as a qualifying federal contractor, the university of illinois system uses e-verify to verify employment eligibility . the university of illinois must also comply with applicable federal export control laws and regulations and, as such, reserves the right to employ restricted party screening procedures for applicants. engineering at illinois teaching excellence and innovation contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');