final exam (thesis defense) | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home academics graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) ph.d. requirements ph. d. time requirements & milestones ph.d. program of study process guidelines for forming ph.d. committee qualifying exam preliminary exam final exam (thesis defense) ph.d. thesis format review guidelines thesis office steps for depositing thesis office requirements view deposited ph.d. theses purpose the final exam represents the last significant opportunity for the ph.d. committee to ask questions and provide comments on the thesis work. it also serves to disseminate the work to the public (including faculty, students, colleagues, friends, and family) . in many ways it represents a celebration of the completion of the work. unlike the preliminary exam, which is closed, the final exam is open to the public and announced along with other public seminars. exam policies the thesis defense must be taken at least four months after passing the preliminary exam. it is recommended that there be at least a 12 month gap between the preliminary exam and the final exam. the student, "chair" and at least one additional voting member must be physically present for the exam. if the student designates a chair and co-chair, both must be physically present at the exam. if the student knows that their chair person may not physically be at the exam, they can designate another chair person prior to scheduling the exam. please keep in mind that that person will no longer hold the title as "chair" person on all forms. the remaining committee may participate in the exam via teleconference or other electronic communication media. the ph.d. committee guidelines in the ph.d. committees section must be followed. the committee for the final exam does not have to be the same as for the preliminary exam, although it often is. any changes due to circumstances that may occur must meet all department and graduate college requirements. a full thesis draft must be submitted to the ph.d. committee at least three weeks prior to the scheduled defense to allow committee members a reasonable amount of time to review the thesis. the prelim-final form must be submitted to the academic office to make the official arrangements no later than 30 days prior to the scheduled defense and prior to submitting the thesis draft to the committee. effective fall 2012, the graduate college requires original "wet" signatures of the "chair", "co-chair" and "department head" on the final exam result form. the student's presentation is publicly advertised so that all who are interested in the research may attend. after the presentation and questions are concluded, the public is asked to leave to so that the committee can privately pass judgment on the work. you must be registered in the term in which you take your final defense. if you are done with your coursework, you can register for zero hours of cs599. please keep in mind that registration below six hours for spring or fall terms, will not automatically assess all of the fees including mckinley, transportation, campus rec facilities, clean air technology and krannert. you will be covered for your basic health care. if you want these services, you will need to pay for them separately when registering for less than six hours in spring or fall and less than three hours for summer term. the defense itself usually proceeds as follows: a few minutes of private discussion by the committee; a public presentation presented by the ph.d. candidate, typically lasting for 45 minutes; questions from the committee, in front of the public; questions from the public; questions from the committee without the public present; private discussion by the committee; and outcome decided and announced to the candidate. contact maggie metzger chappell (or at 333-3527) in the academic office with any questions. guidance on how to prepare you should not rush to schedule a final exam if the work is not completely finished or the thesis is not completely written. it is common for the committee to suggest some minor improvements or corrections to the manuscript; however, it is usually not the case that substantial new work is expected. if there is any risk of the committee requesting further work, be prepared to allot the time necessary to make the recommended changes or enhancements to the thesis. consult your advisor on this point. it is important to attend other defenses to understand the whole ph.d. process and to learn valuable skills from other students' defenses. graduate advising a guiding hand for grads - our academic office is available to assist illinois cs graduate students every weekday. advising contacts contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');