geoffrey lindsay herman
 | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about people all faculty geoffrey lindsay herman geoffrey lindsay herman severns teaching associate professor glherman@illinois.edu 3213 siebel center for comp sci for more information http://publish.illinois.edu/glherman/ biography dr. geoffrey l. herman is a teaching associate professor with the department of computer science. he earned his ph.d. in electrical and computer engineering from the university of illinois at urbana-champaign as a mavis future faculty fellow and conducted postdoctoral research with ruth streveler in the school of engineering education at purdue university.  he joined computer science after spending three years with the illinois foundry for innovation in engineering education working to develop sustainable innovations to engineering and computer science education. his research interests include creating systems for sustainable improvement in engineering and computer science education, conceptual change and development in engineering and computer science students, and change in faculty beliefs about teaching and learning. he is a recipient of the 2011 american society for engineering education (asee) educational research and methods division apprentice faculty grant.  he helps steer the college of engineering dean’s strategic instructional initiatives program and consults with the academy for excellence in engineering education at the university of illinois. teaching statement for me, teaching is the natural culmination of learning.  i love to learn and i love to teach. consequently, i want to enrich others with what i have learned and share my enthusiasm for learning. as this natural love for teaching has been complemented by my research, i have become passionate about promoting two things: students’ intrinsic motivation to learn and their development of coherent disciplinary conceptual frameworks.  when students develop a coherent disciplinary conceptual framework, they can learn new concepts faster and better apply their knowledge to new situations.  when students are properly motivated, they learn more and are more willingly to think deeply.  these two goals mutually support each other and powerfully accelerate learning. to improve my teaching, i make decisions through my own conceptual framework for good teaching and learning:  learning and intrinsic motivation are promoted when students have a strong sense of purpose, autonomy, and competence.  as a teacher i must communicate and articulate the disciplinary purpose for why students must learn the course content, but this disciplinary purpose must also intersect my students’ personal purposes for learning.  i structure my courses to give students the autonomy to discover and explore their personal purpose within the discipline by presenting them with carefully bounded choices.  i then support these choices with carefully selected course structures to give my students a sense of competence and a belief that they can succeed. graduate research opportunities i mentor students who are interested in engineering education research and who are interested in learning how to design better instruction. undergraduate research opportunities i welcome any student who is interested in improving engineering and computer science education to join me in improving their own learning experiences and those of their peers through undergraduate research opportunities. i am currently primarily interested in studying how we can help students learn in courses like cs 225 (data structures) and cs 233 (computer architecture) and in how we can use technologies like the computer-based testing facility to help students learn more. research areas computers and education selected articles in journals herman, g. l., loewenstein, j. (2017). evidence-based change practices, journal of engineering education, 106(1), 1-10. doi: 10.1002/jee.20152 montfort, d. b., herman, g. l., brown s. a., matusovich, h. m., & streveler, r. a., adesope, o. (2015). patterns of student conceptual understanding across engineering content areas. international journal of engineering education, 31(6a), 1587-1604. herman, g. l., zilles, c., & loui, m. c. (2014). a psychometric evaluation of the digital logic concept inventory. computer science education, 24(4), 277-303. doi:10.1080/08993408.2014.970781 herman, g. l., zilles, c., & loui, m. c. (2012). flip-flops in students' conceptions of state. ieee transactions in education, 55 (1), 88–98. herman, g. l., loui, m. c., kaczmarczyk, l., & zilles, c. (2012).  discovering the what and why of students’ difficulties in boolean logic. acm transactions on computing education, 12(1), 3:1-28. articles in conference proceedings herman, g., l. & choi, d. s. (2017). the affordances and constraints of diagrams on students’ reasoning about state machines, in proceedings of the 2017 acm conference on international computing education research (icer 2017), seattle, wa, august 18-20. doi: 10.1145/3105726.3106172 . acceptance rate: 16% courses taught - last four years ci 507 - survey engineering ed research cs 233 - computer architecture cs 296 - honors course cs 498 - learning and computer science cs 598 - learning & comp. science topic cs 598 - learning and comp science related news silva leads team studying interconnections between online learning, equity, and access news | august 16, 2021 four illinois cs students earn highly coveted nsf graduate research fellowships news | july 20, 2021 cs professors prepare to enhance engineering teaching through siip grants news | november 20, 2020 herman's unconventional path unveils award-worthy teaching skillset news | october 9, 2020 load more news contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');