cs cares committee | computer science | uiuc function optanonwrapper() { } window.datalayer = window.datalayer || []; function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new date()); gtag('config', 'aw-1011414001'); function gtag_report_conversion(url) {var callback = function () {if (typeof(url) != 'undefined') {window.location = url;}};gtag('event', 'conversion', {'send_to': 'aw-1011414001/ynxncm-1kfmbephno-id','event_callback': callback});return false;} skip to main content university of illinois urbana-champaign alumni corporate people my.cs university of illinois at urbana-champaign the grainger college of engineering computer science about ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here about cs cares committee values & code of conduct rankings & statistics contact us & directions people all faculty department faculty affiliate faculty adjunct faculty postdocs emeritus faculty staff office of the department head communications & engagement team undergraduate advising office graduate advising office instructional development team business office faculty support contacts facilities, shipping and receiving graduating phd students recent phd alumni open positions faculty positions postdoctoral positions staff positions choose illinois computer science calendar all events corporate events department events graduate events outreach events speakers student group events undergraduate events awards celebration of excellence faculty awards chairs and professorships national & international awards university of illinois awards undergraduate scholarships & awards ruey-feng shieh li family scholarship graduate fellowships & awards alumni awards alumni awards past recipients national & international awards university of illinois awards staff awards history timeline accreditation admissions ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here admissions undergraduate admissions apply now degree & program options application deadlines applications process & requirements transfer students housing accreditation graduate admissions apply now degree & program options professional master of computer science (mcs) program application deadlines applications process & requirements additional required application materials for international students application fee waivers data structures proficiency exam application checklist faqs ican faqs online mcs faqs check application status impact of an illinois cs degree financial aid academics ready to apply? your path to cs at illinois begins here. start here academics undergraduate academics degree & program options b.s. in computer science b.s. in mathematics & computer science b.s. in statistics & computer science cs + x degree programs computer science + advertising computer science + animal sciences computer science + anthropology computer science + astronomy computer science + chemistry computer science + crop sciences computer science + economics computer science + geography & geographic information science computer science + linguistics computer science + music computer science + philosophy cs + x degree requirements & planning forms minor in computer science cs undergraduate degree options faq minor in computer science registration cs course restrictions & enrollment caps policies and procedures undergraduate advising cs student opportunity series (cs sos) undergraduate forms honors transfer students graduate academics phd program final exam (thesis defense) guidelines for forming ph.d. committee ph.d. / m.s. thesis format review guidelines phd program of study process phd requirements phd time limits & milestones preliminary exam qualifying exam ms program ms in bioinformatics program professional master of computer science on-campus master of computer science online master of computer science online master of computer science in data science fifth year master's programs 5-year bs-mcs program 5-year bs-ms program illinois computing accelerator for non-specialists (ican) ican application process ican curriculum graduate forms & advising resources epi exam requirements graduate advising contacts graduate student annual evaluation process new graduate student resources mcs on-campus general advising for registration ms general advising for registration phd general advising for registration official forms courses honor code student resources student life salesforce's codet5 system can understand and generate code read full story news | september 7, 2021 student life overview of cs student life student organizations department, college, and campus events student resources career services research explore visionary research conducted by world-renowned faculty. learn more research research areas architecture, compilers, and parallel computing artificial intelligence bioinformatics and computational biology computers and education data and information systems interactive computing programming languages, formal methods, and software engineering scientific computing security and privacy systems and networking theory and algorithms technical conferences & workshops featured lectures corporate partners illinois cs research overview broadening participation new certificate program for college graduates who want a deeper understanding of computers, algorithms, and programming. learn more broadening participation bpc departmental plan bpc programs & activities for students cs student ambassador/research scholars (cs stars) illinois cs kickstart ai4all apply now ican apply now summer research experience for undergraduates bpc resources cross-cutting educational activities bpc conferences & workshops course assistant training equity & justice in computing seminar series k-12 outreach & resources k-12 outreach programs k-12 resources student organizations news abdelzaher leading $5.8m darpa effort to understand how people respond to influence messaging the defense advanced research projects agency (darpa) has awarded $5.8 million to a team, led by illinois cs's tarek abdelzaher , that will work to characterize how different foreign populations respond to influence campaigns as a first step towards development of effective countermeasures. read full story news | september 8, 2021 news department news feature stories covid-19 projects donor profiles media coverage e-news impact report & publications featured lectures give help ensure that illinois continues to set a global standard for cs research and education. make a gift give give now ways to give donor profiles computer science visionary scholarship donors home about cs cares committee cs cares committee purpose governance members & responsibilities resources contact cs cares values & code of conduct cs cares committee: governance although cares is a committee of the cs department, it operates independently of the department administration, similar to the current advisory committee. the autonomous operation is to increase the trust of all community members and affirm that cares commits to offer support only in the best interests of the people who report concerns. cares governance seeks to strike a balance in acknowledging the need for such autonomy, while also the need for support and stewardship by the department. committee structure the cares committee will consist of a chair, a vice-chair, a past chair, and several committee members. there must be at least: two faculty members from each of the three tenure-track levels (assistant, associate, full); two members from the specialized  faculty; two staff members; one graduate student; and one undergraduate student. the committee, as a whole, must represent, to the extent possible, the diversity of the cs community, including, but not restricted to, gender, ethnicity, and race. to provide a tighter connection with the department governance, one of the committee members (and preferably no more than one) is an elected member of the advisory committee (chosen by consensus of the chairs of the cares and the advisory committees). a representative from the department’s human resources team will serve on the committee in an advisory role. it is usually expected that at the end of their term, the vice-chair will be the new chair of the committee and the current chair will serve as past chair. the vice-chair is therefore expected to play an active role in the committee during their term and the past chair is expected to primarily play an advisory role. committee members normally are invited to serve for a 2 year term, with a maximum of 6 years served consecutively, and a minimum of 4 years away from the committee before serving again.  committee members who serve as vice-chair, chair, or past chair may serve longer in these positions. committee member appointments the members of the cares committee are chosen largely for their commitment and record on the issues covered by the code. because of the gravity and personal nature of the issues that may appear before this committee, ensuring committee members are empathetic, trustworthy, and discreet is of the utmost importance. at the end of each academic year, the department will solicit recommendations for new members of the cares committee from different constituents (faculty, staff, and students) and convey them to the current cares chair. the cares committee will vet these recommendations (e.g., with the advisory committee chair, student organization representatives, and collaborators of the nominee) and prepare a final candidate list by consensus. the cares chair will convey this list to the head of the department. the head will invite new members from this list, balancing other faculty load and cares’ diversity considerations. there is no maximum limit on the number of members in the committee. at the end of each academic year, the cares chair, vice-chair, and past chair will review the service of each committee member that has completed their two year term and if a renewal for another term is appropriate, add them to the list submitted to the department head above. it is intended that members will desire to renew their terms at least once, with the goal of rotating no more than a quarter of the committee each year (of course, this is unlikely for undergraduates). the chair must be a full professor of the cs department. at the cadence of every two years, in the summer in which their terms expire, the chair and vice-chair nominate (one or two) candidates for the next vice-chair (from the committee membership for the subsequent year). the vice-chair and chair seek input on these nominations from the rest of the committee for the current year and from the chair of the advisory committee to make the final decision on the new vice-chair. a committee member may be removed from the committee by consensus of the chair and vice-chair if any problems arise (e.g., breach of confidence). the head of the department is informed of the removal, but confidentiality reasons may not permit sharing the reasons for removal. removal of the vice-chair must occur in consultation with and approval of the advisory committee. if problems arise with the chair, then on the petition of more than half the members of the cares committee, the advisory committee may consider removal and replacement of the chair. reporting and oversight although cares will work autonomously, the final responsibility for its appropriate functioning rests with the department. the cares chair will submit an annual report to the department's advisory committee. individual reports of concerns and conversations with committee members are unequivocally private.  the goal of the cares report is to summarize the nature and scale of climate related concerns within the department, but without inappropriate or confidential details. the cares and advisory committee chairs will discuss this report with the head, with the goal of further surveying the department climate, discussing mechanisms to improve the climate, and providing training materials to cares and community members, as deemed necessary. contact us thomas m. siebel center for computer science 201 north goodwin avenue mc 258 urbana, il 61801-2302 ph: 217-333-3426 (general) | 217-333-4428 (advising) fax: 217-333-3501 general email: admin@cs.illinois.edu graduate advising: academic@cs.illinois.edu undergraduate advising: undergrad@cs.illinois.edu webmaster: grainger-marcom@illinois.edu the grainger college of engineering university of illinois cookie preferences copyright © 2021 university of illinois board of trustees cookie policy | privacy powered by sitemanager | contact webmaster window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new date());
gtag('config', 'ua-9571262-1');